GORDON, Wis. — When Jayme Closs, 13, vanished on the night that her parents were fatally shot in their rural home, scores of law enforcement officials converged on western Wisconsin. Hundreds of tips flowed in. Family members issued tearful pleas.
But in the end, it was Jayme herself who broke the case: She emerged along a wooded road on Thursday afternoon about an hour from her home, her hair matted and wearing ill-fitting shoes, and asked for help from a passing stranger who was out walking a dog. The middle schooler, whose smiling photo had appeared on signs and leaflets all over the state, had escaped from a captor who had been holding her for months, the authorities said, bringing shock, relief and a sudden end to a mystery that had shaken this icy, pine-lined region of Wisconsin.
“Jayme is the hero in this case,” Chris Fitzgerald, the sheriff of Barron County, said.
By Friday morning, officials announced that they were holding a local man, Jake T. Patterson, 21, pending formal charges of kidnapping and murder. Jayme had directed the authorities to him, they said, by providing a description of his car. He was found — in his car, apparently out searching for Jayme — not long after Jayme appeared along the road near Gordon, about 65 miles north of Barron, where the Closs family had lived.
But the discovery of Jayme, who went home with an aunt on Friday after being examined in a hospital, and the arrest of Mr. Patterson, who had no known criminal record in Wisconsin, left many unanswered questions. What was the motive for the double killings and the kidnapping? And how had Jayme been held for months in a home without anyone in the area noticing?
Of the many questions people were asking, Sheriff Fitzgerald said, “Believe me, so are we.”
Sheriff Fitzgerald said the authorities believed that Jayme had been targeted by her kidnapper, but that they so far knew of no connection or contact between Mr. Patterson and the Closs family. Mr. Patterson had once worked at the same turkey plant that Jayme’s parents, James and Denise Closs, worked at for years before their deaths. But Mr. Patterson’s stint there three years ago had lasted a day, officials said, and there was no hint of any contact with the Closses or their daughter.
[For sheriff who led search for Jayme Closs, no sweeter words than “we got her.”]
“We’re very happy that she is alive,” Jayme’s uncle, Jeff Closs, said in a text message. Just when the family started to give up hope, Mr. Closs said, “we got the greatest news ever.”
On Friday, Jayme’s aunt Jennifer Smith shared a selfie with Jayme, who was holding her dog, Molly, and smiling.
Jayme had been missing since Oct. 15, when the authorities found her parents dead in their home; the front door was open and Jayme was gone. The double killing of the Closses, a quiet couple, and the disappearance of their daughter stunned Barron, a town of just over 3,400. A manhunt drew more than 2,100 tips and thousands of volunteers. All over town, shops and homes hung green ribbons bearing the words “Find Jayme Closs.” The local police force of 78 swelled as a corps of 200 federal, state and local officers joined a hunt that went on day and night.
[Read more about how Jayme’s disappearance shook her hometown.]
Her disappearance also drew national attention, and her name topped the F.B.I.’s missing persons list as the reward for her recovery grew to $50,000.
On Friday, signs that read “Welcome home Jayme” appeared on many stores along Highway 8 through Barron — gas stations, churches, a collision center, a farm-equipment supplier, the Dairy Queen.
The news spread quickly, and even those who did not know the teenager said they were overcome. “I started shaking,” said Sharon Masek, 65, a manager at a sand and gravel supplier in Barron. “We had been wishing for this for so, so long.”
Next door to the Closses home, Joan Smrekar, a retiree who had heard gunshots on the night that the Closses were killed, said she could end her daily habit of staring out at the neighbor’s property and wondering where Jayme was.
“Up until yesterday,” Ms. Smrekar said, “I would go out in the kitchen and I’d look out that kitchen window and it was like, ‘God, I wish I knew if you were out there. If you can’t come back, let us know where you’re at.’”
But even with this news, she said, closure would be hard to come by. Ms. Smrekar cried as she spoke.
“It’s like, where do you begin the end,” she said.
Near Gordon, a town that had not known that it had any connection to the case, residents were shaken as they learned that Jayme — the missing girl they had read about — had been among them all along. The home where the authorities said she had been held was in a wooded cul-de-sac known as Eau Claire Acres. Some residents said the beloved seclusion of this part of northwestern Wisconsin, known for its lakeside cabins and ATV trails, was also probably what kept Jayme out of sight for so long.
“What bothers me the most is that we didn’t know,” said Dolly McNamara, 66, who owns a nearby bar. “We watch over each other’s cabins when they’re gone. We see tracks going to someone’s cabin that we know is not there, we go and check.
“Everyone keeps an eye out,” she said. “I guess it’s just never enough.”
Residents said they were unaware of Mr. Patterson; they had never met or seen him, many said, even though the authorities said he had lived in the area for years. Mr. Patterson, who was unemployed, graduated from the Northwood School District in nearby Minong, Wis., in May 2015, according to a school official, Jean Serum. “He was a quiet but good student,” Ms. Serum said. He had been a member of the quiz bowl team.
“We never lock the door up here, and we did lock the door last night,” said Jill Logghe, 63, a teacher who has a cabin in the area. “The restlessness last night was, ‘How could he have acted alone?’”
A neighbor, Daphne Ronning, told The Chicago Sun-Times that Mr. Patterson and a brother grew up in the house that the authorities say Jayme was held in, and that at some point their parents had moved out, but the two sons continued to live in the home. “We had some problems with them when they were teenagers — we caught them siphoning gas,” Ms. Ronning said.
The authorities have said they do not have any additional suspects in the kidnapping or killings beyond Jake Patterson, who is expected to face formal charges on Monday.
No one from Mr. Patterson’s immediate or extended family could be reached. It was not known if he had been appointed a lawyer.
On Thursday afternoon, Jeanne Nutter, a social worker near Gordon, had been out walking her dog, when Jayme suddenly approached her.
Ms. Nutter brought the girl to the nearby home of Kristin and Peter Kasinskas, who told The Minneapolis Star Tribune that Ms. Nutter had said: “This is Jayme Closs! Call 911!”
As they waited for the authorities to arrive, the family offered Jayme food and water and introduced her to their puppy. The couple said Jayme told them she did not know where she was, the newspaper reported.
“It was like I was seeing a ghost,” Peter Kasinskas told The Star Tribune. “It was scary and awesome at the same time. My jaw just went to the floor.”
Nikolaj Coster-Waldau is no stranger to the bloody side of feudal politics. He’s been playing Jaime Lannister, a character known for his murder of a king, on HBO’s “Game of Thrones” for seven seasons. He’ll continue in this vein in November when he portrays another king killer, Macbeth, in a production of Shakespeare’s tragedy directed by the “Game of Thrones” alumnus Matt Shakman at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles, Calif., from Nov. 5 through Dec. 8.
The theater’s 2019-20 season, announced on Thursday, will include the world premiere of Jeffrey Hatcher and Andy Garcia’s adaptation of “Key Largo,” featuring Mr. Garcia in the starring role, and the Tony Award winner Idina Menzel reprising her role in Joshua Harmon’s “Skintight,” from Sept. 3 through Oct. 6.
[Nikolaj Coster-Waldau: The First Time I Recognized My Selfishness. An essay.]
“Key Largo,” set to run from Feb. 4 through March 8, 2020, is based on a play by Maxwell Anderson and the 1948 noir film directed by John Huston, and written by Huston and Richard Brooks. “Skintight,” which had its premiere at Roundabout Theater Company last summer, starred Ms. Menzel as Jodi, a lawyer struggling with her relationship to her fashion-designer father.
Mr. Shakman, the Geffen Playhouse’s artistic director, said in a statement that the coming season “marks some notable firsts for the Geffen — our first Shakespeare production, two world premieres, and a coproduction with the dazzlingly inventive Vampire Cowboys” company based in New York.
“Revenge Song: A Vampire Cowboys Creation,” a play with music by Qui Nguyen, will be the season’s second world premiere and its final production. It will run from June 16 through July 19, 2020.
I’m no actor, but I’d like to think if a script ever came my way with lines like, “Wouldn’t it be funny if nobody knows anything?,” and “Just how many years have I been here, Jack?,” and “How dare Old Joe feed my cat,” I’d know that the movie would probably open in the middle of January when the studios leave their garbage on the curb. But I’m just me, so it’s possible that Matthew McConaughey was sent the pages for “Serenity” and saw something more fit for April or May, when the movies don’t need quite as much cologne.
It’s also possible that he read the script — with its tale of a chain-smoking, heavy-drinking, sweat-soaked fishing boat captain, his ex, her battering new husband and the elusive tropical tuna that haunts the captain’s every waking hour — and recalled the last time he was on the high seas then said aloud, “I miss ‘Fool’s Gold.’” More than half the reason I went to see this movie is because I miss “Fool’s Gold,” too. But that movie is 11 years old. And the days of low-stakes thingamabobs with some stars and even a little bit of writing are gone.
Instead of a caper with Kate Hudson, McConaughey has got a mess written and directed by Steven Knight. The captain — his captain, Baker Dill — has unsexy sex with Diane Lane’s character. He tries to catch that fish alongside his dutiful first mate (Djimon Hounsou). He puts up with the nerdy, White Rabbity stranger (Jeremy Strong) chasing after him and managing the return of Karen, this ex of his and mother of his son. She’s played by Anne Hathaway, as a blonde, and her arrival at the local bar appears to be an event so momentous that the camera has to sprint-swoop around her to gawk. I laughed when it did. Baker Dill is a lousy character name. But that camera pivot is lousier.
Karen asks Captain Dill to take her mean spouse (Jason Clarke) for a boat ride but doesn’t ask to bring him back. But maybe Dill would rather catch that fish than commit murder. So Karen keeps alternating between femme fatale and mysterious detective-novel damsel until he consents.
For reasons known only to Knight, “Serenity” couldn’t just be a film noir. He’s laid some kind of science-fiction nonsense atop it because, apparently, the movie needed a ply of trashy pretension to echo Adrian Lyne’s thriller “Jacob’s Ladder” and complement the luxe incoherence of McConaughey’s Lincoln ads. There are cutaways to Baker and Karen’s son feverishly typing code while, offscreen, his stepdad can be heard slapping Karen around. (It’s possible that Baker can hear his son — telepathically!) The more we learn about that half of things the less sense the rest of the movie makes. That includes a big reveal that’s like the worst of Christopher Nolan, M. Night Shyamalan and the condolence-card section at Walgreens.
MINNEAPOLIS — Jurors could hear opening statements soon in the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer accused of fatally shooting an unarmed woman who called 911 to report a possible sexual assault near her home.
Attorneys will continue questioning potential jurors in the case Monday. Mohamed Noor is charged with murder and manslaughter in the 2017 death of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, a dual Australian-U.S. citizen who was shot when she approached his squad car.
Attorneys spent last week paring a pool of 75. If they settle Monday on a panel of 12 jurors and four alternates, opening statements and testimony would follow.
The judge is considering a media request to allow access to graphic evidence shown to the jury. Noor has joined the challenge to evidence restrictions.
BRYANS ROAD, Md. — A former corrections officer in Maryland has pleaded guilty to attempted murder in a brutal attack on his wife.
The state attorney's office described the crime Monday while announcing the plea by 46-year-old Armando Quispe Rodriguez.
Prosecutors say Keyia Rodriguez was asleep when her husband began hitting and stabbing her, and tried to escape, but he handcuffed her to a railing in the basement and bound her ankles. Then he kept stabbing her, a total of 23 times, and put a bag on her head and a belt around her neck in an attempt to suffocate her.
She didn't die, however, and Armando Rodriguez eventually called 911 to their home in Bryans Road, calling it a "domestic situation."
He faces life in prison at sentencing in August.
___
Information from: WTOP-FM, http://www.wtop.com
(Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court temporarily halted the execution in Alabama on Thursday of a man convicted of killing a minister and wounding his wife with a sword and dagger while robbing their home three days before Christmas 1991.
A three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a delay of 60 days that a district judge in Mobile, Alabama, had granted in the case of Christopher Price, 46, earlier on Thursday.
On Thursday night, the Alabama Attorney General's Office filed an emergency motion with the U.S. Supreme Court, asking it to overturn the stay of execution.
Price was convicted and sentenced to death in 1993 in the killing of William Lynn, a minister, in his home in Bazemore, Alabama, on Dec. 22, 1991.
Price's attorneys argued that lethal injections had been botched in the past, causing a painful death and that execution by nitrogen hypoxia was a better alternative.
The appeals court, in a three-page ruling, cited questions of jurisdiction between itself and the district judge that have emerged in legal arguments filed by lawyers in the case.
"In light of the jurisdictional questions raised by the parties' motions, we stay Price's execution until further notice of this court," the court ruled.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
Lynn was assembling Christmas presents for his grandchildren after he and his wife, Bessie, returned home from church when two men shut off electricity in the home and attacked the couple with a sword and dagger, according to court documents. 
Lynn died of his injuries, while his wife survived wounds to her head, hands and chest. 
Price was captured seven days later and admitted that he took part in the robbery, but said he did not hurt the couple, according to court documents. 
Kelvin Coleman, who was accused of being Price's accomplice, pleaded guilty to murder and robbery and is serving a life sentence without parole, authorities said. 
Price's attorneys have argued the three-drug cocktail to be used in the execution is inhumane and he should be executed by nitrogen hypoxia, a "virtually painless" method, a court brief showed. 
On Thursday, Chief U.S. District Judge Kristi DuBose granted Price's attorneys the 60-day stay and gave the state until May 10 to respond to their arguments that the three-drug protocol risked causing Price significant pain and that nitrogen hypnoxia would reduce that risk.
Earlier this month, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that the Constitution did not guarantee a prisoner sentenced to capital punishment "a painless death," paving the way for the execution of convicted murderer Russell Bucklew, who sought to die by lethal gas rather than lethal injection because of a rare medical condition.
Six executions in the United States scheduled during the first three months of 2019 have been stayed or rescheduled. 
 (Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee and Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Bill Tarrant and Peter Cooney)
Rupert Murdoch’s New York tabloid has a new boss.
In an announcement on Thursday, News Corporation, the newspaper’s parent company, said that Jesse Angelo was out as publisher and chief executive after two decades at the paper. Taking his place is Sean Giancola, The Post’s chief revenue officer.
Mr. Angelo, 45, started out as a stringer for Page Six, the paper’s saucy, celebrity-skewering gossip column. He became a staff reporter in 1999 and quickly moved up the ranks. By age 27 he was dispatching reporters to murder scenes as metropolitan editor.
In 2009, he was promoted to executive editor, and took charge of The Post’s digital operation. Two years later, when journalism circles considered the iPad to be the delivery system of the future, he founded The Daily, a tablet-only subscription publication. Even with a $30 million budget, it crashed and burned, but that did not stop Mr. Angelo’s rise.
He became publisher and chief executive of The Post in 2012. In 2017, he created “Page Six TV,” a syndicated daily TV show along the lines of “Entertainment Tonight” and “Access Hollywood.”
“After 20 years at The Post, it is time for me to move on and let someone else write the next chapter of this storied institution,” Mr. Angelo said in a statement. “I love The Post with my whole heart and wish my colleagues all the best.”
Robert J. Thomson, the chief executive of News Corporation, praised Mr. Angelo for his “varied contributions to our company as a journalist, editor and publisher, and for his leadership during the digital transformation of The Post.”
A native of Manhattan, Mr. Angelo grew up on Central Park West. His mother, Judy Hart Angelo, co-wrote the theme songs for “Cheers,” “Mr. Belvedere” and “Punky Brewster.” His father, John Angelo, founded the investment firm Angelo, Gordon & Company.
Mr. Angelo has known Rupert Murdoch’s younger son, James R. Murdoch, since kindergarten. The two attended Harvard together, and Mr. Angelo was the best man in the younger Mr. Murdoch’s wedding. They are still close.
James Murdoch, the chief executive of 21st Century Fox, is expected to step away from the family media empire in the coming months, once the i’s are dotted in the $71.3 billion merger agreement between Fox and the Walt Disney Company. A former chief executive of News Corporation, Mr. Murdoch has had political differences with his brother, Lachlan, and his father, Rupert, who both lean more conservative.
As staff members learned of Mr. Angelo’s departure, they speculated that a former Post editor in chief, Col Allan, was preparing to come out of retirement. A veteran journalist from Rupert Murdoch’s home country of Australia, Mr. Allan served as editor in chief of the tabloid from 2001 to 2016 as part of a 42-year career at News Corporation, which included a long stint at The Daily Telegraph in Sydney. He was replaced at The Post by the paper’s current editor in chief, Stephen Lynch.
Mr. Giancola, after holding executive positions at AOL Advertising, American Express and Time Inc., joined The Post in 2015.
WASHINGTON — An American citizen who was abducted nearly 18 months ago in the Yemeni city of Sana was freed last week and has been reunited with his family, President Trump announced on Monday.
Danny Lavone Burch, an engineer at a Yemeni oil company, has been “recovered and reunited with his wife and children,” Mr. Trump tweeted aboard Air Force One as he flew toward Vietnam, where he is to meet this week with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.
“I appreciate the support of the United Arab Emirates in bringing Danny home,” the president wrote. “Danny’s recovery reflects the best of what the United States & its partners can accomplish.”
Mr. Trump did not specify how Mr. Burch, who is married to a Yemeni woman, was freed. It also was not clear who had abducted Mr. Burch, although former American officials said he was not being held by Al Qaeda.
Working closely with American forces, the United Arab Emirates has stationed ground troops in Yemen to fight Houthi rebels in the country’s ongoing civil war. American officials have previously told The New York Times that freeing Mr. Burch likely would have required a raid; a State Department spokesman on Monday said the United Arab Emirates was “crucial” to securing his release.
Two American officials discussed the details of the case on Monday on condition of anonymity.
Mr. Burch, who had been working for oil companies in Yemen for years, was 63 when he was forced from his car by unidentified gunmen in September 2017. At the time, Nadia Forsa, Mr. Burch’s wife, said in a phone interview that “they did it in broad daylight in front of everyone.”
Kidnappings of Americans and other Westerners are common in Yemen, a poor country that has been devastated by years of civil unrest. Houthi rebels and affiliates of Al Qaeda often attempt to ransom hostages for money or accuse them of being spies.
At the time of Mr. Burch’s abduction, no group claimed responsibility.
Mr. Burch began working on oil rigs in Yemen in the mid-1990s. He traveled between the United States and Yemen before moving there permanently, according to Stephen Burch, his son from his first marriage, in an interview shortly after he was taken in 2017.
Stephen Burch said then that his father had divorced his first wife and had virtually no contact with him or his other children from the first marriage.
In his tweets on Monday, Mr. Trump said recovering American hostages “is a priority of my Admin, and with Danny’s release, we have now secured freedom for 20 American captives since my election victory.”
DAKAR, Senegal — Some of the young women are thriving at a new school. Some have returned home to their family farms. But the fates of more than 100 other students who were kidnapped from a school in northeastern Nigeria are unknown, five years after militants from Boko Haram abducted them.
On Sunday, the fifth anniversary of the kidnappings from the village of Chibok, President Muhammadu Buhari reiterated a pledge he had made years ago to bring back all of the students.
“We will not rest until all the remaining girls are back and reunited with their families,” he said on his official Twitter account. “I made this promise when I became President, and I will keep it.”
In 2014, Boko Haram militants stormed a girls’ school in Chibok and made off with over 200 girls who were boarding there to take exams the next day — an act that gained widespread attention across the world with the social media hashtag #BringBackOurGirls advocating their release.
Mr. Buhari’s message came after months of silence on the topic, which barely registered in campaign discourse during a heated presidential election this year. The kidnappings, which riveted a global audience at the time, seem all but forgotten by the outside world.
Protesters who once marched daily at Unity Fountain in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital, have been quiet. Activists both locally and globally who had held signs and tweeted have mostly gone silent.
Yet the missing students remain constantly on the minds of their parents, who gathered Sunday at the site of the school in Chibok to offer prayers for their return.
“They are losing hope,” said Allen Manasa, a spokesman for the village, adding that in five years the government had yet to brief the parents about their missing daughters.
He said the community urged “mounting pressure on the Nigerian government to explore all available means to rescue these girls.”
Mr. Buhari’s message on Sunday sought to reassure Nigerians that he hadn’t forgotten.
“We will never give up on our missing daughters,” Mr. Buhari wrote on Twitter, also citing other hostages taken by Boko Haram. “In the last four years our security agencies have successfully rescued thousands of captives, and they will not relent until every captive is free.”
Yet critics say it defies belief that the students remain missing.
“It is a global failure of monumental proportion that the whereabouts of hundreds of girls who went to school remain unknown in an age of intrusive technology,” said Oby Ezekwesili, a former education minister who has been a leading advocate for the students’ release.
For the past decade, Nigeria’s northeast has been ravaged by a war with Islamist militants from Boko Haram who have made kidnapping innocent villagers one hallmark of their brutality.
A video that the militants released in 2014 of the sad-looking girls from Chibok, dressed in dark hijabs and sitting on the ground at a militants’ hide-out, caught the attention of celebrities and Michelle Obama, who was photographed holding a #BringBackOurGirls placard.
When Mr. Buhari assumed the presidency in 2015, he made progress in the fight against militants, chasing them from forest hide-outs and killing scores of fighters. But in past months the militants have regrouped, and simultaneously fractured while boasting about ties to the Islamic State, which they pledged loyalty to several years ago.
Boko Haram fighters have carried out suicide bombings and stepped up attacks across the border in Niger and Chad. One faction circulated a video of a violent attack on a military installation in Nigeria.
Last week, amid threats of an attack in the countryside, Nigerian soldiers rounded up community members in the middle of the night and herded them into a camp for displaced people, prompting outrage from residents who unexpectedly had to leave their homes.
Last year, the fighters carried out kidnappings eerily similar to the one in Chibok, taking dozens of girls in the community of Dapchi before returning most of them several days later. At least one student, Leah Sharibu, is still being held, reportedly because she is a Christian and refused to convert to Islam.
Mr. Buhari has negotiated for the release of about half of the students from Chibok, who are now in their late teens or early 20s. Many of them are studying at the American University of Nigeria in Yola, where a special program was designed to catch them up with their studies and advance them to university work if they choose. The government is picking up the tab.
On Sunday, the local news outlet This Day published an editorial calling for the remaining students to be rescued and saying that their continued absence “represent a blur on our collective humanity.”
“Until all the abducted girls can be accounted for,” the editorial said, “the promise of the constitution, that the welfare of Nigerians shall be the primary purpose of government, will continue to ring hollow.”
MEXICO CITY — Mexico's efforts to calm critics of its newly formed National Guard received a boost Tuesday in the form of an agreement from the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to assist in the force's training.
High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet said that her office will offer technical assistance to ensure that Mexico's new security force respects human rights.
"Experience shows us that you can't have security without full respect for human rights and you can't enjoy human rights without security," Bachelet said.
U.N. human rights experts had been outspoken in their criticism of President Andrés Manuel López Obrador's efforts to reform the constitution to give the military a formal role in the country's policing. He eventually agreed to place the National Guard under the civilian public safety minister, but has insisted that it will be led by an active duty military officer.
López Obrador said he will name the force's commander Thursday. It will initially be made up of military police from the army and navy, as well as some federal police, but recruitment is underway.
Mexico is coming off its most murderous year in at least the past 20. Previous administrations used the army and marines to combat the drug cartels in many parts of the country after determining that local police forces were hopelessly corrupt. Human rights abuses ensued by soldiers not trained for police work, from torture to extrajudicial killings.
López Obrador took office in December ready to scrap the Federal Police, which he said never came together as expected and replace it with the National Guard. The leftist president has lavished praise on Mexico's military, surprising some, insisting that only the military has the necessary discipline and respect of the public to get a handle on the country's internal security.
"We are going to carry out this change to guarantee security without violating human rights," López Obrador said. "We want Mexico to open to international observation."
Bachelet sidestepped questions about the essentially militarized nature of the new National Guard, whose officers will apparently be given military training and be under military discipline.
Bachelet said "the creation of the National Guard could open the opportunity to create a new civilian police force capable of fighting the overwhelming challenge of organized crime," without explaining how.
Bachelet called Mexico's crime numbers "terrifying," noting "Mexico has numbers of violent deaths worthy of a nation at war; 252,538 since 2006."
She also mentioned the murders of nine human rights activists and four journalists so far in 2019, coming on top of a dozen journalists murdered each year in 2018 and 2017.
Bachelet said the U.N. would be willing to help Mexico integrate its forensic files on the country's 40,000 missing people, and strengthen its capacity to find clandestine graves and identify bodies.
BALTIMORE — Baltimore has both the highest murder rate among the nation’s big cities and one of the most broken relationships between its police and its citizenry. Only one out of four homicides were solved last year. And the city’s enforcement of marijuana laws has fallen almost exclusively on African-Americans.
Given this dire set of facts, the city’s top prosecutor announced on Tuesday that she would no longer bother with marijuana cases, a controversial move that she argued would improve police-community relations and allow law enforcement to devote more time to serious violent crime.
“If you ask that mom whose son was killed where she would rather us spend our time and our attention — on solving that murder, or prosecuting marijuana laws — it’s a no-brainer,” said Marilyn Mosby, the state’s attorney for Baltimore. She vowed at a news conference to no longer prosecute marijuana possession, regardless of quantity or prior criminal record, and said she would seek to vacate almost 5,000 convictions.
Ms. Mosby’s move places her in a vanguard of big-city prosecutors, including Kim Foxx in Chicago, Larry Krasner in Philadelphia, Cyrus R. Vance Jr. in Manhattan and Eric Gonzalez in Brooklyn, who are moving away from marijuana cases, declaring them largely off limits and in some cases going so far as to clear old warrants or convictions off the books.
Much of their reasoning sounds familiar from the many statewide campaigns that have resulted in outright legalization: Marijuana, they say, is not linked to violent crime. Enforcing its prohibition is a waste of resources, and has left thousands of people with criminal convictions that hinder their search for jobs and housing.
But increasingly, another argument is creeping in: Letting marijuana cases go actually makes communities safer, by shifting the focus to stopping violence and untangling a legacy of racial discrimination, allowing the seeds of trust to germinate in neighborhoods where a chief complaint of police officers is that no one will help them solve crimes.
“How are we going to expect folks to want to cooperate with us,” Ms. Mosby said in an interview in her office on Monday, “when you’re stopping, you’re frisking, you’re arresting folks for marijuana possession?”
The Baltimore police do not share her view, however, and the response to her announcement immediately cast doubt on how effective it would be. The mayor, Catherine E. Pugh, applauded Ms. Mosby’s attempt to address the “unnecessary criminalization” of marijuana users, but stopped short of endorsing the new policy.
The interim police commissioner, Gary Tuggle, said he would not tell officers to stop making marijuana arrests.
“Without the police, this is just political theater,” said Thiru Vignarajah, a former Maryland deputy attorney general who ran against Ms. Mosby in the 2018 Democratic primary. Mr. Vignarajah noted that many of those who are found with marijuana these days are issued citations and allowed to go on their way anyway.
More than 90 percent of marijuana citations between 2015 and 2017 were issued to black residents, who make up roughly two-thirds of the population.
Other critics of the prosecutor’s move called the announcement too little, too late. Tre’ Murphy, a community activist with Black Leaders Organizing for Change, initially expressed support. “Wow, it’s a major overhaul,” he said. But a few beats later, his skepticism set in, and he wondered why it had not happened until Ms. Mosby’s second term in office.
“I don’t think we can afford to wait these long time frames,” he said. “Until we recognize the harm that many of these policies have caused and rebuild these institutions from the ground up, people will never trust it.”
Ms. Mosby’s first term was occupied by a series of epic police scandals, which placed her at odds with the department. Other prosecutors across the country have moved more quickly on the issue.
[What the Freddie Gray case cost Marilyn Mosby.]
In Chicago, Ms. Foxx said her office will move to expunge all misdemeanor marijuana convictions. In St. Louis County, Wesley Bell will prosecute no marijuana cases involving amounts under 100 grams. In Boston, Rachael Rollins has pledged to stop prosecuting drug possession and possession with intent to distribute, along with 13 other crimes.
Advocates for decriminalization applauded Ms. Mosby’s new rules for pushing the envelope. People will not be prosecuted for possessing marijuana at all, and will not be charged with distribution or intent to distribute based on quantity alone — there must also be other indicators of drug dealing, such as scales or plastic bags.
“That’s kind of taking it to the next step, in a manner that’s consistent with how people actually use when they’re not trying to profit,” said Jolene Forman, a senior staff attorney with the Drug Policy Alliance.
Ms. Mosby said people charged with felony distribution for the first time will automatically be referred to a diversion program designed to help them enter the job market. Successful completion of the two-year program can result in expungement of the case.
The new policy would not apply in cases where a defendant faces multiple charges, such as possession of both marijuana and a gun, Ms. Mosby said.
Ms. Mosby said her office would also seek to pass a statute that would make it less cumbersome for prosecutors to overturn a conviction when the circumstances warrant.
Police departments and unions have sometimes put up resistance to these broad uses of prosecutor discretion, saying they defy the intent of lawmakers. Ms. Mosby said that when she briefed Commissioner Tuggle, “He said he felt that marijuana drives violent crime, and I explained to him that is not the case.”
After her announcement, the interim commissioner released a statement confirming that arrests will continue “unless and until the state legislature changes the applicable laws.” A new police commissioner, Michael Harrison of the New Orleans Police Department, will arrive next month — the fifth person to head the department since Ms. Mosby took office.
In 2016, Mr. Harrison publicly embraced a legal change that allowed the New Orleans police to handle most marijuana possession cases by issuing a summons, and said that officers would have to get permission to make arrests in those cases.
In Baltimore, the police have few grounds to claim that the status quo is working well.
First there was the shocking case of the elite Gun Trace Task Force, whose members robbed residents and planted evidence. Then there were the bodycam videos that appeared to show officers staging the discovery of evidence. A recent investigation by Buzzfeed and TheTrace.org examined the department’s failure to solve, or in some cases even investigate, shootings.
The department’s credibility is so tattered that in April, when the police commissioner himself testified that he had found a loaded gun in a driver’s glove compartment, the jury acquitted the man.
A settlement with the Justice Department to correct systemic racial disparities and excessive use of force has proved to be a challenge. Last week, the judge overseeing the settlement said the department seemed to have a “culture of timidity” when it came to confronting corruption.
Ms. Mosby has been called a divisive figure, particularly after her handling of the case of Freddie Gray, whose death from injuries sustained in police custody set off weeks of unrest. Ms. Mosby charged six officers in the death, and then — after a hung jury and three acquittals — dropped the prosecution, dishing out blame for what she called the Police Department’s failure to conduct an unbiased investigation. She was attacked for being too progressive and for not being progressive enough.
But last year, it became clear that Ms. Mosby understood her base: communities in the city that were both overpoliced for minor infractions and underprotected from violence, with serious crimes going unsolved in their neighborhoods.
In the 2018 primary, she defeated Mr. Vignarajah and another opponent, Ivan Bates, by wide margins, and was unopposed in the general election.
ROME — An Italian school bus driver took 51 seventh-graders hostage in northern Italy on Wednesday, pouring gasoline on the bus floor and later setting it afire.
After someone on the bus made an emergency call, Italian carabinieri, or military police, reached the bus and safely rescued all the children, as well as two teachers and a janitor aboard, as it burst into flames.
The driver, Osseynou Sy, an Italian of Senegalese origin, said that “he wanted to vindicate the dead of the Mediterranean,” according to Warrant Officer Marco Palmieri, a spokesman for Milan’s provincial branch of the carabinieri, Italy’s military police.
Mr. Sy, he said, was referring to the large number of migrants who lose their lives each year during the perilous crossing of the Mediterranean from North Africa to Europe. The International Organization for Migration estimates that 282 people have drowned that way this year.
A promise to curb migration from North Africa was a key factor in the election of Italy’s populist national government a year ago. Since then, the country — once a principal hub for migrants crossing the Mediterranean — has closed its ports to nongovernmental rescue vessels, to force other European countries to bear the burden of migrant landings.
The Italian interior ministry announced on Sunday that migrant arrivals were down 94 percent this year, compared to 2018.
Mr. Sy was arrested and treated at a Milanese hospital for burns on his hand. He was expected to be charged with kidnapping; arson; resisting arrest; intention to commit mass murder, because some students were still on the bus when it burst into flames; and terrorism as an aggravating factor, because he “created panic and threatened Italian institutions,” said Alberto Nobili, one of the Milanese prosecutors assigned to the case.
Mr. Sy told prosecutors that he had acted alone and that he intended to send a message to African immigrants “not to come to Europe, but at the same time to punish Europe for what he saw as its unacceptable migration policies,” Mr. Nobili said at a news conference in Milan on Wednesday night.
The students, who attend a middle school in Crema, a city some 50 kilometers, or almost 32 miles, east of Milan, were returning from gym class when Mr. Sy, a regular driver on the route, poured gasoline down the bus’s center aisle and announced that he was hijacking it and taking them to Linate Airport in Milan, investigators said.
He then gave zip ties to the three adults, ordering them to tie each child’s wrists together as he drove. As they went back the rows of seats, the adults left the zip ties progressively looser, another prosecutor, Francesco Greco, said.
Police in two carabinieri cars, tipped off by the phone call, forced the bus to stop on the Paullese provincial highway, but Mr. Sy rammed the cars again and again. While some officers tried to speak to him, others from a third military police car forced the bus’s side door open and broke the windows at the back to allow the passengers to flee.
At that point, Mr. Sy apparently ignited a lighter he was holding, officers said, and the bus caught fire as the hostages were escaping.
Italian television stations showed images of the charred skeleton of the bus, completely destroyed.
Asked why the adults did not try to overpower the driver, Warrant Officer Palmieri said that he could not speak for them, but that “the threat was very real.”
Mr. Sy was born in Senegal in 1972, investigators said, and became an Italian citizen in 2004. His wife, from whom he is separated, is Italian, and the couple have two children.
Mr. Sy had been working for the Autoguidovie bus company for 15 years, a company official, Corrado Bianchessi, said. He “never gave any particular signal” to indicate what he had planned, Mr. Bianchessi told the Italian channel of Sky News. “We are amazed,” he said.
Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, who is also Italy’s interior minister and a major opponent of illegal immigration, posted a tweet in which he said that Mr. Sy had a police record for driving under the influence and sexual assault.
“Why was someone with such record driving a bus for school children?” he asked. But prosecutors said the offenses were relatively minor.
Mr. Nobili said Mr. Sy had made a video explaining his actions on Tuesday. “He wanted the world to speak of this event,” he said, adding that prosecutors had no sense the episode was tied to “radicalized terrorism.”
He said Mr. Sy told investigators he wanted to board a plane to Senegal from Linate Airport, but it was unclear how he could do that or what he intended to do with the students, who were around 12 years old.
Mr. Sy told prosecutors he never wanted to hurt anyone, but Mr. Greco wasn’t buying it. “If we’re not crying over the death” of dozens of schoolchildren, he said, “it is thanks to the courage and rapid response of the carabinieri.”
“It could have been a massacre,” he told the Ansa news agency.
NAIROBI, Kenya — Suspected Islamist militants abducted two Cuban doctors in an ambush that killed a police bodyguard in northern Kenya near the Somali border, officials said Friday.
It was the second abduction of a foreigner in five months likely carried out by the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab extremist group, which is based in Somalia.
The gunmen may have taken the doctors into Somalia, police spokesman Charlse Owino said. He said the doctors' driver had been detained to help with investigations.
The doctors were ambushed as they headed to work, said David Ohito, communications director for the Mandera county government.
Gov. Ali Roba said the gunmen's vehicle blocked the doctors' vehicle "and opened fire at their bodyguards, killing one instantly." Al-Shabab was suspected, the governor said.
Cuba's Health Ministry identified the doctors as Assel Herrera Corea, a general physician from the eastern province of Las Tunas, and Landy Rodríguez Hernández, a surgeon from the central province of Villa Clara.
Herrera's Facebook page shows recent photos of him in Kenya and indicates he earlier worked in Venezuela and Brazil.
The ministry said it had established channels of communication with Kenyan authorities and established a governmental working group to deal with the case.
At least 100 Cuban doctors have been brought in Kenya in an exchange program that saw about 50 Kenyans travel to Cuba for specialized training last year.
In November an Italian volunteer, Silvia Romano, was kidnapped in southern Kenya's coastal region by gunmen linked to al-Shabab. She has not been found.
Kidnapping for ransom was a frequent al-Shabab activity before 2011. That's when Kenya sent troops into Somalia to fight the extremists who had kidnapped four Europeans that year. Kenya said the abductions threatened tourism, a key pillar of the economy.
Kenyan troops are now part of the multinational African Union force bolstering Somalia's weak government against al-Shabab. The extremist group has vowed retribution on Kenya for its troop presence in Somalia.
Al-Shabab's deadly attack on a luxury hotel complex in Kenya's capital, Nairobi, in January was one of numerous attacks inside Kenya that have killed hundreds since 2011.
Mandera county's border area has borne the brunt of the attacks.
___
Associated Press writer Andrea Rodríguez in Havana contributed.
___
Kristoff St. John, who won two Daytime Emmy Awards during his long tenure on the CBS soap opera “The Young and the Restless,” was found dead early Sunday morning at his home in Los Angeles. He was 52.
Sarah Ardalani, a public information officer at the Los Angeles County medical examiner’s office, confirmed the death. She said that an autopsy had been conducted but that the cause of death had not been determined.
Mr. St. John spoke openly about his depression after his 24-year-old son, Julian, committed suicide in 2014. Mark Geragos, Mr. St. John’s lawyer and friend, said in a telephone interview on Monday that Mr. St. John had told him recently that his grief and depression had worsened.
Mr. St. John began playing Neil Winters, a cosmetics executive who struggled with infidelity, alcoholism and many other plot twists, on “The Young and the Restless” in 1991. He most recently appeared as the character in January, completing nearly 1,700 episodes of the show.
He told The Toronto Star in 1994 that he saw Winters as “energetic and striving for the top spot,” someone who “doesn’t really see himself as a ladies’ man but rather quite sensual” and “very secure.”
Mr. St. John won 10 N.A.A.C.P. Image Awards for playing Winters, one of the longest-running African-American characters on a soap opera.
Kristoff St. John was born on July 15, 1966, in New York City and grew up in Bridgeport, Conn., and Los Angeles. His father, Christopher, was a producer, director and actor; his mother, Maria, was an entertainer. Both of them inspired him to enter show business.
“My dad is a producer-director,” Mr. St. John told the Canadian newspaper The Edmonton Journal in 2000. “Had he been a fireman, I’d probably be putting out fires.”
Mr. St. John began acting as a child. His television career started with an appearance on the sitcom “That’s My Mama” in 1975. He played a young Alex Haley in “Roots: The Next Generations” (1979) and had a recurring part on the television version of “The Bad News Bears,” on which his father also appeared. He was also seen on “Family Matters,” “Martin,” “A Different World,” “Diagnosis Murder” and other shows.
Mr. St. John’s two marriages, to the boxer Mia St. John and Allana Nadal, ended in divorce. Last year he became engaged to Kseniya Mikhaleva, a Russian model.
Mr. St. John had two daughters, Paris, from his first marriage, and Lola, from his second. Complete information on survivors was not immediately available.
His son, Julian, an artist who suffered from schizophrenia, depression and drug addiction, died by asphyxiating himself with a plastic bag at a mental health care facility in Long Beach, Calif., in 2014. Mr. St. John and his first wife, Mia, accused the staff of negligence, filing a lawsuit against the facility and airing their grievances in an interview on “Entertainment Tonight.”
“My son died because there are millions of people suffering from the mental disabilities of schizophrenia, bipolar and being depressed,” Mr. St. John said. “And so at the end of the day his life will not be in vain. His life will be vindicated, and I will campaign until the day that I die to bring justice to my son.”
The lawsuit was settled in 2017.
To the Editor:
Re “In 5-to-4 Decision, Justices Halt Law Curbing Abortion” (front page, Feb. 8):
It’s hard to believe that the liberal wing of the Supreme Court now depends upon Chief Justice John Roberts as the swing vote on controversial social issues. Not sure how long that will last, but his vote on blocking the Louisiana abortion restrictions from going into effect was courageous given the unanimity on the conservative side.
It does seem inevitable that Roe v. Wade will be tested head on in the near future, so liberal-minded citizens need to keep their proverbial fingers crossed that Chief Justice Roberts maintains his independent thinking and is not a rote conservative like the others.
Peter C. AlkalayScarsdale, N.Y.
To the Editor:
Re “Trump’s Assault on Abortion Rights,” by Andrew M. Cuomo (Op-Ed, Feb. 7):
Like Governor Cuomo, I am a practicing Catholic who believes that a country founded on the principle of religious freedom does not have the moral authority to undermine Roe v. Wade and the subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court, which has already established parameters to protect the unborn after viability. Any further restrictions would impose an undue burden on a woman’s right to choose.
While the Catholic Church, along with some other religions, may argue that all abortions are murder, there are many Americans who do not share this belief. If the Supreme Court with its two new conservative justices should overturn Roe, it would be the equivalent of establishing a state religion, the very thing our founding fathers wanted to avoid. 
Abortion is a moral and religious issue, and for that very reason, the state should remain neutral and not try to impose the personal religious beliefs of some of its citizens on all of its citizens.
Dolores Parrotto GiesmanPhiladelphia
To the Editor:
Gov. Andrew Cuomo asserted that restrictions on abortion contradict the separation of church and state. As a Roman Catholic, I have noticed that many of the church’s teachings are not exclusive to Catholics, but rather are accepted as positive moral lessons by the general population, including people of different religions and those with no religious affiliation.
The fact that beliefs are promoted by religious organizations does not make those beliefs exclusively related to religion. Lawmakers who impose restrictions on unnecessary abortions are not doing so because religious groups instructed them to, but rather because of their personal moral beliefs. 
I hope and believe that in the future, all Americans will look back on legal abortions as morally disgusting and unacceptable, just as we now view slavery and other parts of our past.
Drew JaskowskiRoscommon, Mich.
To the Editor:
During the State of the Union speech, President Trump handled the issue of third-trimester abortions in a particularly deplorable manner. He spoke of lawmakers in New York cheering when a bill was passed “that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.” He continued, “These are living, feeling, beautiful babies.”
This inflammatory language has nothing whatever to do with the actual situation under which such abortions occur. Third-trimester abortions represent less than 1 percent of all abortions performed in the United States and happen when the mother’s life or health is at risk, or when the fetus is not viable. Such abortions take place only after very careful consideration. They are not offered to anybody who requests one, no questions asked. 
Mr. Trump’s rabble-rousing and unethical remarks will certainly not help to move the country toward greater unity.
Linda H. ZonanaBranford, Conn.
NATIONAL
An article on Friday about the firing of the lawyer Morris Dees by the Southern Poverty Law Center misstated the year in which Mr. Dees won $7 million in damages on behalf of the family of Michael Donald. It was 1987, not 1981.
NEW YORK
An article on Thursday about the death of the mob boss Francesco Cali misstated the name of a street used as a location in the film “The Godfather.” It was Longfellow Avenue, not Road.
SPORTS
An article on Thursday about the tennis player Naomi Osaka’s adjustment to stardom misstated when Belinda Bencic beat Ms. Osaka in straight sets at the Hopman Cup. It was in December 2018, not January 2019.
•
An article on Friday about a ban on drugs and whips on racing days at Santa Anita Park misstated the period during which 22 horses died. The first of the horse deaths occurred on Dec. 26, not six weeks before the publication of the article.
ARTS & LEISURE
An article on Page 14 about the actress and comedian Amy Schumer refers imprecisely to the video Ms. Schumer made about Beyoncé’s “Lemonade.” It was a tribute, not a spoof.
ARTS
A book review on Thursday about “The Trial of Lizzie Borden” misstated the title of a true-crime documentary. It is “Making a Murderer,” not “How to Make a Murderer.”
•
An article on Friday about Roz Chast and Patricia Marx misstated the title and publication date of their new book. It is “Why Don’t You Write My Eulogy Now So I Can Correct It? A Mother’s Suggestions” with a release date of April 2, not “Why Don’t You Write My Eulogy So I Can Correct It? A Mother’s Suggestions” with a release date of April 1.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
MANILA — The Philippine police said on Thursday that a mayor had ordered the killing of a congressman who was gunned down shortly before Christmas, and that one of the men he hired to carry out the assassination had been arrested.
The police said they would seek to arrest Carlwyn Baldo, mayor of the city of Daraga, whom they accused of arranging the Dec. 22 killing of Rodel Batocabe, a member of the Philippine House of Representatives and an ally of President Rodrigo Duterte.
Mr. Batocabe was leaving Congress and had announced his intention to run against Mr. Baldo in Daraga’s mayoral election in May. Orlando Diaz, a police officer who was guarding Mr. Batocabe, was shot and killed along with the congressman at a gift-giving ceremony for senior citizens in Daraga, a city of about 125,000 in Albay Province, southeast of Manila.
“From all indications, as revealed by suspects and witnesses and physical evidence that was gathered by the police, the group that killed Batocabe and Diaz is a private armed group employed by the mayor that is involved in contract killing as a gun-for-hire syndicate,” said the national police chief, Oscar Albayalde.
Mr. Baldo said in a statement Thursday, which he read over the phone to a local radio station, that he was not involved in the killings. “Let us not forget that while I am being used as a convenient scapegoat, those who are truly responsible for the crime remain free and blameless,” he said.
The radio station said Mr. Baldo was speaking from his office in Daraga. Calls to Daraga’s municipal offices were not answered on Thursday afternoon.
Political violence has long plagued the Philippines. Even before Mr. Batocabe’s killing, several officials and candidates for local office in the nationwide elections scheduled for May had been gunned down around the country. But it had been years since a Philippine congressman had been murdered.
Mr. Albayalde said that a “trusted security aide” of Mr. Baldo, a former soldier named Christopher Cabrera, had been arrested on Sunday. He said Mr. Cabrera was a member of a six-man hit squad hired by Mr. Baldo. Mr. Albayalde said the mayor had set up a fund of about $95,000 to pay for the killing.
Mr. Albayalde said complaints had been filed in Albay Province accusing all seven men of murder, and that it was now up to courts there to issue warrants against Mr. Baldo and the five other men still at large.
“This is a breakthrough in the pursuit of justice for the victims and their families,” said Salvador Panelo, Mr. Duterte’s spokesman.
Mr. Albayalde said the plot to kill the congressman was devised as early as August, when Mr. Baldo reportedly gave Mr. Cabrera $4,600 to buy guns and motorcycles. That was around the time that Mr. Batocabe announced his intention to run for mayor of Daraga.
Under interrogation, Mr. Cabrera said he used the initial funds to buy two motorcycles, while another member of the team bought two .45-caliber pistols, Mr. Albayalde said. Both Mr. Cabrera and the second man are former army intelligence operatives, and the man thought to have pulled the trigger is a former Communist guerrilla, he said.
Mr. Albayalde said a person who was involved in the initial planning but later backed out had come forward to corroborate the police’s suspicions. He would not say whether the person was being treated as a witness or a suspect.
MEXICO CITY — The Mexican Red Cross briefly shuttered operations in the central city of Salamanca after a man wounded by gunfire was pulled from one of its ambulances by gunmen over the weekend.
The Guanajuato state chapter of the first-aid group said it resumed ambulance service Sunday in the city of roughly 270,000 people after suspending service following Saturday's incident.
Salamanca has been plagued by violence between fuel theft gangs due to its gasoline refinery.
In a statement, the Mexican Red Cross said it "is an impartial and neutral institution before all conflicts and its purpose is to relieve human suffering," adding the hashtag "We are not part of the conflict."
Earlier this month, a woman with gunshot wounds was executed inside an ambulance in Mexico's Pacific state of Guerrero.
Crime and punishment are everywhere in this week’s recommended titles, from Patrick Radden Keefe’s “Say Nothing” (the true account of a 1972 murder in Northern Ireland) to Don Winslow’s “The Border” (the last novel in his trilogy about the drug trade) to Andrew G. McCabe’s “The Threat” (a memoir about the F.B.I. by its former deputy director). Post-Oscars, we also recommend a film critic’s take on Hollywood’s sexual subtexts; and post-democracy (kidding! I hope!) we suggest some histories to offer perspective — a look at how the Supreme Court case Plessy v. Ferguson turned segregation into federal policy, a celebration of black women who smashed boundaries, a study of American political polarization and its consequences.
If you get quite enough of that elsewhere thank you, and turn to reading precisely to escape the noise and the chaos, well, we hear you. And we quietly urge you to pick up Jane Brox’s book “Silence,” which considers the uses and abuses of enforced quiet from monasteries to prisons.
Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksTwitter: @GregoryCowles
SAY NOTHING: A True Story of Murder and Memory in Northern Ireland, by Patrick Radden Keefe. (Doubleday, $28.95.) This meticulously reported book begins with a longstanding mystery: Who abducted Jean McConville, and why? In December 1972, a group of masked men and women dragged McConville, a 38-year-old mother of 10 who had recently been widowed, from her Belfast home. “Say Nothing” investigates what happened to McConville, while also telling the broader story of the Troubles. “This sensitive and judicious book raises some troubling, and perhaps unanswerable, questions” about how to move forward from an anguished past, our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “Keefe’s narrative is an architectural feat, expertly constructed out of complex and contentious material, arranged and balanced just so.”
THE THREAT: How the FBI Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump, by Andrew G. McCabe. (St. Martin’s, $29.99.) McCabe, the former deputy director of the F.B.I., was fired in March 2018, just 26 hours before his scheduled retirement. “The Threat” is a concise yet substantive account of how the F.B.I. works, at a moment when its procedures and impartiality are under attack. It’s also an unambiguous indictment of President Trump’s moral behavior. “This lawman, a registered Republican for the entirety of his adult life, may have been driven out of Dodge,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. “But he has dusted off his white hat and returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.”
WAYWARD LIVES, BEAUTIFUL EXPERIMENTS: Intimate Histories of Social Upheaval, by Saidiya Hartman. (Norton, $28.95.) This exhilarating social history begins at the cusp of the 20th century, with young black women “in open rebellion.” They claimed sexual freedom, serial partners, single motherhood — or opted out of motherhood entirely. Hartman’s “rigor and restraint give her writing its distinctive electricity and tension,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “She pushes past the social workers, the psychologists, the policemen and the scandalized moralists standing in our way to reveal the women for the first time, individual and daring.”
THE BORDER, by Don Winslow. (William Morrow, $28.99.) This stunning conclusion to a trilogy that began with “The Power of the Dog” and “The Cartel” concerns subjects that put it right on the culture’s front burner: the Mexican-American border, the handling of migrant children, the opioid crisis and some barely fictionalized claims about how foreign money has bought influence at the highest level of the United States government. “Winslow means to journey deep into a new kind of hell this time, and to suggest that his readers recognize the sensation,” our reviewer Janet Maslin writes. “This is a book for dark, rudderless times, an immersion into fear and chaos.”
SILENCE: A Social History of One of the Least Understood Elements of Our Lives, by Jane Brox. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) To parse the role of silence in Western history, Brox examines very different institutions where quiet dominated: prison and the monastery. In each, she says, silence both liberated and terrorized. “Brox writes beautifully about the silence woven through daily tasks and between prayers in the medieval monastery,” our colleague Gal Beckerman declares in an essay devoted to two books on the subject. “Silence for her is a force of nature, awe provoking, like lightning, capable of electrocuting us and of illuminating the night.”
IF WE CAN KEEP IT: How the Republic Collapsed and How It Might Be Saved, by Michael Tomasky. (Liveright, $27.95.) In this sweeping, sometimes breezy volume, Tomasky unearths bits of forgotten American history to explore how “our system became so broken” as to elect someone like Donald Trump. He does so “in the service of making two main points about our current predicament,” Jason Zengerle writes in his review. “The first is that American politics have always been polarized but that the polarization of today is qualitatively different. … His second point is that will is ‘the most overrated commodity in politics.’” Zengerle concludes that Tomasky’s sharpest (“if sobering”) argument “is that while our current troubles created the conditions that brought us a President Trump, those troubles would exist no matter who was in the White House.”
SEPARATE: The Story of Plessy v. Ferguson, and America’s Journey From Slavery to Segregation, by Steve Luxenberg. (Norton, $35.) This history, full of surprises, absurdities and ironies, traces the doctrine of segregation before and after the Civil War, which culminated in the notorious 1896 Supreme Court decision that made “separate but equal” the law of the land. Luxenberg focuses on three key figures from the Plessy case — the plaintiff’s lawyer and two of the court’s justices — but also expands his range to devote “many lively and illuminating pages to race and politics in New Orleans,” James Goodman writes in his review. “Segregation is not one story but many. Luxenberg has written his with energy, elegance and a heart aching for a world without it.”
SLEEPING WITH STRANGERS: How the Movies Shaped Desire, by David Thomson. (Knopf, $28.95.) The eminent film scholar makes the provocative case that the erotic life of movies shapes and misshapes us, and suggests that since the Production Code of the 1930s, cinema has helped subvert smug heterosexual pieties. Our reviewer, Daphne Merkin, calls it “an argument — or several arguments — wrapped in a film history wrapped in a memoir,” and says that its component parts “contain more original insights, provocative asides and thought-inducing speculations than several volumes of a less talented writer’s efforts.”
NOTES ON A SHIPWRECK, by Davide Enia. Translated by Antony Shugaar. (Other, paper, $16.99.) In this quiet yet urgent memoir, an Italian playwright and journalist bears witness to the suffering of migrants fleeing Africa for the island of Lampedusa, and fuses their stories with a personal narrative about his beloved lost uncle and reticent father. Reviewing it, Steven Heighton says that the book “rings graphically true” and that “Enia’s understatement and touching humor help keep his own losses in perspective. … Structurally, the book attests that a sincere engagement with global crises can grow only from a soil of sympathy that’s local and personal.”
THE RAVEN TOWER, by Ann Leckie. (Orbit, $26.) Leckie — best known for her award-winning space operas — has written her first stand-alone fantasy novel, a striking exploration of gods, mortals and divinity. “It’s absolutely wonderful,” Amal El-Mohtar writes in her latest Otherworldly column about speculative books. “It reminded me of nothing so much as ‘Hamlet’ — if ‘Hamlet’ were told from the point of view of Elsinore Castle addressing itself to a Horatio who mostly couldn’t hear it.” The book features a battle between gods, El-Mohtar adds, but “it feels closer to the register of folk tale than epic, and is all the more riveting for that.”
GOOD RIDDANCE, by Elinor Lipman. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $25.) A 1968 high school yearbook mordantly annotated by the heroine’s mother (who was a vain young English teacher at the time, and who has since died) sparks the plot of this social comedy when a neighbor sets out to unlock its secrets. Mary Pols, reviewing it, admires how “Lipman dresses the plot up with contemporary cultural touches” and calls it “a caper novel, light as a feather and effortlessly charming. … The book inspires a very specific kind of modern joy. I read it fast, in a weekend, during which I did not find my social media accounts or tidying my house nearly as diverting as what was on these pages.”
BERLIN — Something was very wrong at the valve factory. A 23-year-old trainee at ARI-Armaturen, a middle-sized manufacturer in the German industrial town of Schloß Holte-Stukenbrock, fell into a persistent vegetative state. He was found to have ingested highly toxic mercury, but investigators could not work out where it had come from.
Another employee on the same shift went to doctors at least five times with mystery symptoms, and was eventually found to have severe kidney damage.
The truth emerged, according to media reports, only when a third employee, Klaus Radke, noticed a brownish substance in the ham-and-cheese sandwiches he brought from home. After it had happened several times, he went to the police, and — about 18 months after the young trainee fell into the coma — they asked the company to install a camera in its break room.
A 57-year-old machinist, identified under German privacy laws only as Klaus O., was poisoning his colleagues’ sandwiches. On Thursday, a court in the nearby city of Bielefeld sentenced him to life in prison.
And the verdicts against him, for aggravated attempted murder and nine other charges relating to the trainee and two colleagues with lasting kidney damage, did not mark the end of the investigation.
The district attorney in charge of the case, Veit Walter, said his office was examining 21 deaths in and around the company, previously considered unrelated, for “any indication of foul play that would justify an exhumation.”
Investigators arrested Klaus O. on May 16 last year, after video showed him strolling into the break room, opening a colleague’s backpack, and sprinkling powder onto his sandwiches.
The machinist was found to be carrying a bottle of highly toxic lead acetate pills. The police then raided his home, and discovered what was described in court as a basement laboratory.
During the trial a psychiatrist testified that the defendant was interested in watching the effects of poisons on his victims’ health. He used lead, cadmium and mercury, apparently mixing chemicals in his home lab.
Mr. Radke’s final suspect sandwich — which he took to the police, after photographing and throwing out earlier examples — was said in media reports to have contained nearly 71,000 micrograms of lead, a substantial but far from lethal dose.
The court heard that the defendant had been experimenting with poisons for years, and had ordered a new batch on the internet days before his arrest. Investigators also found extremely high levels of mercury on his property.
Throughout the trial, which began in November, the defendant did not speak, other than to identify himself to the judge, in keeping with German courtroom rules. But the court did hear testimony from the man’s estranged siblings who described a traumatic and impoverished upbringing.
During the trial, a psychiatrist had confirmed that the defendant was not only fully responsible for his actions, but that he might strike again, if given a chance.
Under German law, prisoners given life sentences are eligible for review, and potentially parole, after 15 years. The sentence in this case, however, included preventive security custody, an indication that the man is likely to stay in prison indefinitely.
Such measures are exceedingly rare in the German justice system and reflect how grave the court considers the crimes. Last year a pedophile convicted of horrendous and systemic abuse was given a similar security custody.
“It’s not legally binding yet, since his lawyers are planning to appeal, but once it is, it will be probably the most severe punishment you can get under German law,” said Phil Gabler, a spokesman for the court, of the sentence given to Klaus O.
At one point during the trial, the district attorney asked Mr. Radke why he never started locking the backpack in which he brought his sandwiches.
“Nobody believes that a colleague does something like that,” he replied. “Because everyone trusts in each other.”
CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been the sunny face of New Zealand, celebrated as the nation’s youngest leader in 150 years, the one who gave birth in office and brought her baby to the floor of the United Nations. At 38, she’s pitched progressive politics and her nation’s charms to Stephen Colbert and the “Today” show. Vogue magazine called her the “anti-Trump.”
Now, with the massacre of 50 people at two mosques by a gunman espousing anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant hatred, Ms. Ardern is back in the international spotlight, but the glamour is gone. Instead, she speaks for New Zealand at a moment of national pain, her vision of kindness in politics tested by the worst mass murder in her country’s modern history.
“We represent diversity, kindness, compassion. A home for those who share our values. Refuge for those who need it,” she told reporters at Parliament as the horror of the shootings began to unfold on Friday, her words broadcast around the world even as the killer’s video and manifesto of hatred were spreading online. Ms. Ardern herself had been emailed a copy of the manifesto minutes before the massacre began.
“You may have chosen us,” she said of the gunman, “but we utterly reject and condemn you.”
That sentiment has echoed across New Zealand in the aftermath of the shootings. In a country of less than five million people, prized for its safety and natural beauty, people had the same refrain: Things like this do not happen here.
On Saturday, thousands attended vigils and visited makeshift memorials around the country. They expressed disbelief on social media, using the hashtag #TheyAreUs to embrace the Muslim community.
In Auckland, the largest city, a gathering in Aotea Square opened with a prayer for Muslims and others discriminated against around the world before the crowd sang “Stand by Me,” local news media reported. In the capital, Wellington, lampposts near the city’s largest mosque were plastered with signs.
“Love and solidarity to our Muslim whanau,” the posters read, using the indigenous Maori word for family. “No room for racism here.”
In Christchurch, where the massacre occurred, the tragedy drew together unlikely allies. Members of rival New Zealand gangs stood in solidarity outside Hagley College, where relatives of those dead, injured or missing gathered to console one another.
“We’re here to show our support and our love,” said Karnz Vercoe, part of a group of former gang members called Tu Tangata.
President Trump, who was mentioned as a source of inspiration in the manifesto believed to have been posted by the gunman, condemned the killings and called them a “horrible, disgraceful thing.” Asked by a reporter if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, Mr. Trump said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”
Ms. Ardern recounted on Saturday her own conversation with Mr. Trump after the attack. “He asked what support the United States could provide,” she said. “My message was: sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.”
She said she had “conveyed the sentiment that I think exists here.”
Aware that the eyes of the world are on New Zealand, many see Ms. Ardern as their representative for processing and reacting to the news.
“Given the situation, I really don’t think anyone could do much better,” said Jordan Teheuheu, 21, who stopped at a makeshift memorial in Christchurch. “In our time of need, we need people who show who we are.”
But Ms. Ardern, who took office in 2017, faces great challenges. She has promised to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws in the wake of the attacks, though she has yet to say how and gun-rights supporters have pushed back.
The Kiwi Gun Blog, an online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating.”
A former race relations commissioner, Susan Devoy, has also called on the government to start counting instances of hate crimes, suggesting they are more common than New Zealanders like to think.
“There can be no other response if we are serious about learning anything from the murders of our innocent people this week,” Ms. Devoy said.
After speaking to the nation from the capital on Friday, Ms. Ardern flew to Christchurch on Saturday, accompanied by lawmakers from across the political spectrum.
She was somber, dressed in black. At a meeting with Muslim leaders, for which she wore a black head scarf, Ms. Ardern asked those present what they would like her to do.
“Our time is for you to determine,” she told the leaders. They wanted her to meet families of the victims, and she did.
Christchurch, a city of 375,000, has faced tragedy before: It was rocked by major earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, demolishing much of the central city. The February 2011 quake killed 185 people.
The city’s mental health services are still stretched to the breaking point. Just last month, Ms. Ardern promised $54 million for mental health treatment in Christchurch.
Lynette Hardie Wills said people “are still suffering” after the quakes. Eight years later, she is waiting for repairs to her badly damaged home.
In the newly rebuilt inner city, a mural wall surrounds the ruined cathedral in the heart of the city. And on the side of the Christchurch Art Gallery, huge neon letters spell out, “Everything is going to be alright.”
ELDORA, Iowa — An Iowa woman charged with kidnapping for confining her boyfriend's 8-year-old son under basement stairs has been convicted of a lesser charge.
A judge on Wednesday found Traci Tyler guilty of misdemeanor false imprisonment. Prosecutors say she and the boy's father, Alex Shadlow, locked the boy in the basement of their Ackley home for at least nine hours a day in summer 2017. The boy told authorities he had to sleep on concrete.
Hardin County District Court records show that Judge James Ellefson didn't find that Tyler meant to inflict serious injury on the boy, a key component for a kidnapping conviction. Her sentencing is scheduled for April 26.
Ellefson oversaw Tyler's nonjury trial in Eldora. Shadlow's trial is set to begin Sept. 30.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
A former boyfriend of a young bookstore clerk whose body was stuffed into a suitcase and dumped in a wooded lot in Greenwich, Conn., has been arrested in connection with her death, the police said on Tuesday.
The man, Javier da Silva, was taken into custody at his home in Queens on Monday night after he used an A.T.M. card that belonged to the victim, Valerie Reyes, 24, of New Rochelle, N.Y., the authorities said.
Mr. da Silva told detectives that on Jan. 29, Ms. Reyes fell and struck her head while they had sex at her apartment, according to a criminal complaint released Tuesday. He said he bound her hands and feet, placed tape over her mouth and put her in a suitcase before driving to “a forest” and leaving the suitcase there, the complaint states.
It was unclear from the complaint if Ms. Reyes was still alive when she was placed in the suitcase. “Javier da Silva is charged with committing a gruesome kidnapping that resulted in the death of a young woman,” Geoffrey S. Berman, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said.
The arrest in the case, which is being prosecuted by Mr. Berman’s office, came after dozens of interviews with witnesses and the review of hundreds of hours of surveillance footage, the Greenwich police said. Mr. da Silva, who was charged with a kidnapping resulting in death, remained in custody without bail after a brief court hearing on Tuesday in White Plains.
The police have told Mr. Reyes’s mother that she was seen near the New Rochelle train station on Jan. 29. The night before, she had called her mother, Norma Sanchez, in a panic. “She was going on about how frightened she was in that apartment,” Ms. Sanchez said last week. She told her mother: “I feel like somebody’s going to murder me.”
Ms. Sanchez said she was aware that her daughter had recently broken up with a boyfriend, and she specifically asked if she feared him. “No,” her daughter replied. Ms. Reyes lived in the basement apartment of a home that contained several other tenants, including her father, Ms. Sanchez noted.
Ms. Reyes was a clerk at a Barnes & Noble store in Scarsdale, N.Y., but never showed up for work that Tuesday, the day Mr. da Silva said he put her in the suitcase and left her in the woods. The next day, however, she was supposedly seen in New York City. The police in New Rochelle told Ms. Sanchez that her daughter was seen on surveillance video exiting a Chase Bank branch near Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan on Jan. 30 at 6:30 a.m.
The contradiction in the police account and that of Mr. da Silva was not immediately explained on Tuesday.
Ms. Sanchez said that she had taken comfort from this apparent sighting, and believed that her daughter was seeking refuge in the safety of city crowds and would come home when she felt ready. “She was planning to stay for a while,” Ms. Sanchez recalled thinking.
But on Feb. 5, highway workers in Greenwich made a grim discovery in a wooded area beside Glenville Road, near Stillman Lane, an area dotted with large estates and “No Trespassing” signs. A suitcase in the woods contained Ms. Reyes’s body, bound at the hands and feet. The area is about 14 miles from Ms. Reyes’s apartment. When the police searched her apartment this week, they found a drawing that seems to match an image of Mr. da Silva from an account he uses on social media, according to the complaint.
Mr. da Silva is a citizen of both Portugal and Venezuela, his lawyer told a federal magistrate judge, Lisa Margaret Smith, during a hearing on Tuesday afternoon. His immigration status was unclear.
Dozens of relatives, friends, co-workers and former teachers of Ms. Reyes arrived at a funeral home in New Rochelle in the blowing snow on Tuesday to pay their respects at a wake.
“She’s very nice, very sweet,” said Alan Lopez, a friend who would often see her at work when he would buy books. “She always smiles.”
ISLAMABAD — Two Pakistani Hindu sisters whose parents said they were kidnapped and forced to change their religion to marry Muslims had converted voluntarily, a court ruled on Thursday, in a case that has attracted attention in Hindu-majority India. 
The court had ordered the government to take custody of the sisters, both teenagers, in late March after accusations spread on social media that they had been forced to convert to Islam. 
Another video showed the sisters saying they had married two Muslim men and converted to Islam of their own free will.
The court said the two were adult enough to make their own decisions and that they were not forced to convert. 
Police say the teenagers left their home in Pakistan's southern province of Sindh on March 20 to be married in Punjab province, where the law does not bar marriages of those younger than 18, unlike Sindh.
The police detained ten people in the case and registered a formal case of kidnapping and robbery on complaints from the girls' parents.
The incident prompted a rare public intervention by a top Indian official in its neighbor's domestic affairs, when Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj said on Twitter she had asked India's ambassador in Pakistan for a report.
Pakistan was "totally behind the girls", Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry said on social media in response to Swaraj's message, but asked India to look after its own minority Muslims.
 (Reporting by Asif Shahzad; Editing by Nick Macfie)
NEWARK, N.J. — A man who was on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list when he was captured last month has pleaded not guilty to murder charges in the 2014 strangulation of his fiancee in New Jersey.
Lamont Stephenson entered his plea Monday during a brief hearing where he was represented by a public defender. He will remain jailed until his trial, which hasn't been scheduled.
Stephenson is charged in the death of Olga DeJesus. Her body was found inside her Newark apartment. He was placed on the FBI's Top 10 list in October 2018 and was captured in Maryland on March 7.
Stephenson was in a truck when Prince George's County police approached him while investigating a suspicious person call. He told the officers he was homeless but later said he was a wanted man.
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. — The murder trial for a Huntsville police officer who shot a suicidal gunman last year is being delayed so he can appeal a judge's ruling that he's not immune from prosecution.
Officer William "Ben" Darby was supposed to go on trial Monday. A grand jury indicted him for murder despite his being cleared by a police review board.
 WAAY-TV and AL.com are reporting the details of last week's pre-trial hearing where Madison County Circuit Judge Donna Pate denied the immunity claim.
Darby said he followed police procedure and his shooting was justified.
Video evidence shows 49-year-old Jeffrey Parker was holding a gun to his head inside his home as officer Genisha Pegues tried to calm him down and another officer, Justin Beckles, stood in the doorway.
Darby then entered the home, yelled at her to point her gun at Parker, and within 10 seconds, fatally shot Parker in the face with his shotgun.
Officer Pegues testified that Parker had told her he wasn't going to hurt her, and that she never felt threatened. Darby, though, said he feared Pegues wasn't protecting herself and should have withdrawn to set up a perimeter and wait for a standoff negotiator. Pegues agreed the video showed she had taken her gun off Parker, in violation of her training, but otherwise said she felt she had followed police rules.
Video shows the three officers told Parker seven times to drop his gun. Parker refused and shrugged his shoulders. Darby said that shrug made him believe Parker was about to shoot an officer, so he fired.
A video interview between Darby and a Huntsville police investigator was played in court. Three days after shooting, Darby said: "I regret it became necessary, but I don't regret my action."
Beckles, who is now a police officer at the U.S. Army's Redstone Arsenal, also testified that he did not believe Pegues had control of the situation. He said Parker was not going to drop his weapon. Beckles told the judge it was "inevitable we needed to eliminate the threat from non-compliance."
Huntsville is paying for the officer's defense. Police Chief Mark McMurray and Mayor Tommy Battle said Darby did nothing wrong.
Darby's on desk duty while the charges are pending. Beckles left the force and works as a police officer at the U.S. Army's Redstone Arsenel. Pegues was sent to remedial training and reassigned as a school resource officer.
___
Information from: WAAY-TV, http://www.waaytv.com/
Soon after Jayme Closs, 13, disappeared in Wisconsin in October, officials offered a $50,000 reward for information that would lead to her safe return. Now Jayme, who escaped from a kidnapper after she was abducted and her parents were killed, will receive at least half of it.
That $25,000 was donated by Hormel Foods, the Minnesota-based company that owns Jennie-O Turkey Store, where Jayme’s parents had worked in Barron, Wis., for 27 years.
“First and foremost, Jennie-O Turkey Store is a family,” Steve Lykken, a senior vice president of Hormel and the president of Jennie-O, said on Wednesday. “Here in Barron, our Jennie-O family is dealing with a very tragic situation.” The goal, he added, is to set up a trust fund for Jayme.
The girl’s parents, James Closs, 56, and Denise Closs, 46, were killed on Oct. 15 when an intruder entered their home, shot them and kidnapped their daughter. Jayme was held for 88 days in a cabin 70 miles from her home by a man, identified as Jake T. Patterson, who forced her to hide under a bed whenever he left, trapping her in with heavy items, the authorities said.
She managed to escape on Jan. 10, clawing her way out from under the bed, putting on a pair of men’s shoes and running to a nearby road where she asked a woman for help.
[After her kidnapping, Jayme Closs endured horror, the police said.]
“I’m Jayme Closs,” the woman recalled the girl saying. “I don’t know where I am.”
Jayme has been staying with relatives since she was found.
The kidnapping upended the rural community where the Closses lived. The authorities received thousands of tips. Last month, Jennie-O organized a “Tree of Hope” lighting ceremony for Jayme’s safe return.
“While we are still mourning the loss of longtime family members Jim and Denise, we are so thankful for Jayme’s brave escape and that she is back in Barron,” Mr. Lykken said this week.
The other $25,000 in reward money had been put forward by the F.B.I. Leonard Peace, a public information officer for the agency in Wisconsin, declined to comment on whether it would pay Jayme the money, given that she saved herself.
“Our general practice is to refrain from disclosing details on the final decisions in these matters due to privacy considerations,” he said in a statement. “The F.B.I. evaluates the information provided along with the unique circumstances of the case and its resolution, and determines whether it is appropriate to award reward money.”
[A Georgia case involving escaped inmates and slain prison guards shows that doling out reward money can get complicated.]
But others have chipped in to help Jayme. A representative for GoFundMe confirmed that a campaign started on Jan. 11 to help the girl was verified. So far, the organizer, who is a family member of Jayme’s, has raised more than $34,000.
RALEIGH, N.C. — A North Carolina man has been sentenced to life in prison for the triple murder of his neighbors who had accused him of child molestation.
News outlets report Jonathan Sander was sentenced Monday for the 2016 deaths of Sal Mazzella's wife, adult son and daughter-in-law.
Before the sentence was handed down, Mazzella said he has forgiven Sander. Sander sarcastically applauded that announcement and launched into a nearly 30-minute rant that blamed and insulted other people.
He began to threaten jurors and was cut off by Judge Graham Shirley, who said Sander would die in obscurity despite his crimes.
Sander was friends with Mazzella's son Sandy, and the family accused him of child molestation in 2016. Evidence says he burst into their home with a shotgun while screaming, "Child molester? Really, Sandy?"
One bright area in these dark days of American politics has been a blossoming of bold and interesting progressive policy ideas, such as wealth taxes, postal banking (offering basic financial services to customers who might not otherwise have access to them) and breaking up the giants of the tech industry. In the spirit of fresh starts, progressives should now confront an even more basic challenge: their complexity problem.
In recent decades progressives have not prioritized making policies and programs easy for most Americans to understand, use and benefit from. Fixing this problem will mean overcoming a streak of perfectionism and a certain intellectual defensiveness, but it must be done if progressives are to make government popular again.
The Affordable Care Act is a good example of the complexity problem. Yes, it was an important policy achievement, and yes, many of its problems can be rightly blamed on industry resistance and Republican efforts to dismantle it.
But the act is also exceptionally hard to understand and discouragingly daunting to make use of. An emphasis on “choice” and “transparency” resulted in a law that only a rational-choice theorist could love. The act made health insurance more complicated, not less, which is one reason that such a high percentage of medical bills go to paying administrative costs, and why the Affordable Care Act is much less popular than it could be.
It used to be said that a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged. Today she’s a liberal who tried to pay a babysitter without breaking the law. It is admirable that Democrats try to tackle society’s thorniest problems with the often unwieldy tools of government, but that is not an excuse for programs that are too complex for their own good.
The truth is that good public policy can actually be elegant and simple to understand, even when the social problem that it’s addressing is complex. Social Security, Medicare, bans on indoor smoking, the “do not call” list (when it worked) and public libraries are examples of government solutions that are easy to understand and to benefit from.
Avoidance of complexity and minimizing choices are hallmarks of good design, as we have learned from the technological revolution in user interfaces. The age of impossible-to-use computers and incomprehensible TV remote controls has given way to the sleek and intuitive interfaces offered by pioneers like Steve Jobs of Apple. What progressives most need now is not more brains, but better policy designers.
One major obstacle to simple, effective public policy is people like me — the expert class. Many of us are in denial, seeing complexity as a necessary evil, an unavoidable feature of answers to hard problems, even a technocratic badge of honor. We criticize conservatives for relying on simplistic slogans like “cut taxes” and “drill, baby, drill” instead of nuanced, empirically informed assessments of economic growth and environmental management.
Progressives are right to consider expertise essential to good policymaking. But policy experts are rarely good at interface design, for we have a bad habit of assuming that people have unlimited time and attention and that to respect them means offering complete transparency and a multiplicity of choices. Real respect for the public involves appreciating what the public actually wants and needs. The reality is that most Americans are short on time and attention and already swamped by millions of daily tasks and decisions. They would prefer that the government solve problems for them — not create more work for them.
To be sure, not every interaction with government can be all sweetness and light. The business of government, after all, also involves confrontation, as when it ferrets out fraud or brings murderers to justice. And some challenges, like financial regulation and ensuring drug safety, are irreducibly complex. It is often said that today’s world is more complex than ever before — but for a good designer, that calls for more effort, not giving up.
For what the public wants from government is help with complexity, not exposure to it. This generation of progressives, to achieve lasting success, must accept that simplicity and popularity are not a dumbing-down of policy, but rather the unavoidable requirement for its success.
Carla Stefaniak did everything “right,” her best friend said.
On a five-day vacation to Costa Rica in November to celebrate her 36th birthday, Ms. Stefaniak, a dual Venezuelan-American citizen, chose a gated Airbnb villa near the airport. It had a security guard. It was in a safe neighborhood. And she made sure to get home before dark.
The night before she was to fly to Florida, she contacted her best friend, Laura Jaime, on the FaceTime app. She showed off the crocheted earrings she had bought in a local market and gave a video tour of her villa. The friends planned to see each other the next day, when Ms. Jaime was to pick her up at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport.
But Ms. Stefaniak never boarded her flight home on Nov. 28.
During their phone call, Ms. Stefaniak had made a strange remark. She said the situation felt “sketchy,” but didn’t elaborate.
“Carla knew at 8:20 that night that something was wrong,” Ms. Jaime said in an interview. “Sometimes we justify our intuition. But when something is triggered and our body says something is wrong, you have to listen to it.”
A week later, Ms. Stefaniak’s brutalized body was found wrapped in plastic and half-buried in a sloping patch of forest near her Airbnb rental. The Costa Rican police arrested the property’s security guard in connection with the killing.
Recent headlines about the deadly violence inflicted on women traveling alone have raised questions about how the world is greeting the documented rise in female solo travelers and about the role of social media in promoting the idea that far-off lands are easily accessible and safe.
They have also shined a light on the enduring nature of gender violence worldwide and laid bare how a lone foreign traveler’s cultural and social expectations do not always comport with local views about a woman’s place in the world — and whether she should travel at all.
Thousands of women go abroad every year without incident. Many women experience catcalls and myriad other forms of harassment while traveling; women of color have written about being dismissed or ignored abroad because of their race. And while violence against male tourists is just as devastating, the harrowing experiences of female solo travelers can still shock the senses. 
In December, the bodies of Louisa Vesterager Jespersen, 24, of Denmark and Maren Ueland, 28, of Norway, were found with knife wounds in their necks in the High Atlas Mountains of Morocco. Danish officials called the murders an act of terror. That same month, the Briton Grace Millane disappeared in Auckland, New Zealand, on the night before her 22nd birthday; she was found slain days later. In 2015, a 19-year-old British backpacker was gang-raped by bikers in Thailand. In March, an Australian man was convicted of kidnapping and raping a Belgian traveler seeking work after keeping her locked up in his pig shed for two days.
There’s no question that women face unique risks when traveling solo, experts say.
“We have evidence that shows that women face risks that men don’t face in public spaces, at home, wherever they may be,” said Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director of UN Women, an organization that promotes female equality. Increasingly, “wherever they may be” includes alone in foreign countries. But she said that violence against female tourists was a thread in the broader fabric of violence against women around the world. And violent episodes are just as likely to occur, experts note, in rich Western nations such as France, Italy and Germany as in the developing world. 
“The root cause of this kind of violence against women in communities and in public and private spaces has a lot of do with the underlying gender stereotypes, social norms, entitlement and patriarchy,” Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka said.
Solo travel by women has grown in popularity year after year, according to travel industry studies.
Hostelworld, an online hostel-booking platform, found in a 2018 study that bookings by solo female travelers increased by 45 percent from 2015 to 2017, compared with a 40 percent increase for men.
“Solo travel was once seen as brave and risky for female travelers, but a shift of attitude has meant that it is now an adventurous, exciting experience that allows them to feel free with no one else to worry about or please,” the company said.
The online travel company 101 Singles Holidays found in a study of more than 60,000 British travelers that the number of people booking solo holidays rose by 14 percent in 2017 from 2016, and that tour operators were predicting a further rise of 11 percent in 2018. Solo female travelers also outnumbered their male counterparts by almost two to one, the study showed.
A 2018 global survey by British Airways of 9,000 women found that more than 50 percent had taken a solo vacation, with 75 percent of the women surveyed planning solo trips in the next few years. Another ad hoc sign of women’s growing interest in hitting the road alone: Web searches for “solo female travel” have also risen drastically in the past five years, according to Google Trends.
But even as more women explore the world, there is no clear global picture of the scale of violence against female solo travelers, making it hard to pin down whether attacks are on the rise or people have wider access to the grim news. 
The reason: Most countries do not comprehensively track violence against female travelers. 
Global agencies like the United Nations have traditionally collected data on gender violence as a whole. The State Department offers tips for women but does not break down data on violence against travelers by gender, a spokesman said. A British Foreign Office spokesman said the agency no longer compiled the Helping Britons Abroad report, making 2015 the last year for which figures were available, when they showed a 4 percent increase in sexual assaults against Britons abroad from 2010. But the statistics are not gender-specific. 
Experts find the lack of such figures troubling.
Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka, of UN Women, said that countries had little incentive to collect and publicize information that could be detrimental to their image. “This would not be seen by many countries as important data to collect,” she said, “so you are unable to track the prevalence or patterns.”
Women have always been explorers on a scale both grand and personal — long before the British trailblazer Freya Stark visited inhospitable areas in Turkey and the Middle East and before the Irish travel writer Dervla Murphy saw the world on a bicycle. 
Today, women’s increased spending power has given them the means to travel more for leisure and adventure. Shifting attitudes in the West about who can travel alone have also added to a growing industry. Social media plays a big part, offering intimate glimpses of far-off lands. A scroll through Instagram hashtags like #LadiesGoneGlobal, #WeAreTravelGirls and #TheTravelWomen offer millions of photos of women posing on glistening beaches, trekking up mountains and exploring cobblestone streets — a collective and aspirational lure.
But some women, like Hannah Gavios, 26, of Queens, discover horror away from home.
Ms. Gavios found her passion for traveling solo while studying abroad in college. “I feel like it gives me the luxury of seeing the culture in the way I want to and being able to paint my own experience,” she said.
After college, she traveled to Southeast Asia on her own, visiting Thailand in 2016 on a break from teaching English in Vietnam. One evening, she was walking alone after dinner in Krabi, known for its beaches and as a popular hangout for young tourists, when a local man offered to guide her back to her hotel.
She said she was afraid of getting lost, so she followed him. But just as she grew increasingly uneasy, he attacked.
Fleeing for her life, Ms. Gavios tumbled from a cliff and fractured her spine. The man sexually assaulted her while she lay helpless for 11 hours. 
In the morning light, he left — but, surprisingly, returned with help.
Ms. Gavios was hospitalized for months, first in Thailand and then New York, and had to learn to walk again using crutches and custom leg braces. Her attacker was eventually arrested and sentenced to five years in prison.
The week Ms. Stefaniak vanished, her friends and family scrambled to alert Costa Rican authorities. They organized a campaign through a Facebook page,  “Finding Carla.” The State Department quickly became involved, and the F.B.I. pressed local officials.
When her body was discovered near her villa, her relatives were shattered.  
Ms. Jaime, her best friend, said the local authorities should have done more to publicize the risks to women in the country. “They have a responsibility to tell tourists of all the risks, and they are not doing it,” she said.
Ms. Stefaniak was the third foreign woman killed in Costa Rica in three months. But the country was also grappling with a deeper, more systemic problem of brutality against local women, ones who did not have the power of an American passport to help galvanize agencies like the State Department or the F.B.I. on their behalf. 
At least 14 women were killed in gender-based violence in the country from January to August 2018. In September, the government declared violence against women a national problem.
The National Institute for Women, a government ministry, pointed to the murders of foreigners last summer in a statement to illustrate the issue: “We are faced with the fact that, beyond the damage it may cause to the image of the country, they are clear examples of the serious situation of violence against women, which has its most brutal expression in femicide.”
Still, Costa Rica is considered one of the safest countries in Central America, particularly for tourists, with a lower homicide rate than many neighboring nations. Officials say they have made strides to combat gender-based violence.
Ms. Jaime said she believed that her friend might have been targeted because she was a Spanish speaker who blended right in and her killer might have thought the police would be lax. “Maybe because she spoke Spanish, he might have felt no one would have looked for her,” Ms. Jaime said. 
But she said the attacker had underestimated the determination of Ms. Stefaniak’s family. Not only are her relatives fighting for justice in Costa Rica’s courts, they also filed a lawsuit accusing Airbnb of negligence. Their lawyer in Costa Rica, Joseph Alfonso Rivera Cheves, appeared to suggest a callous disregard in the aftermath, noting that the same day Ms. Stefaniak vanished, her Airbnb room was being cleaned and new renters checked in.
The family also says that the local host evaded negative reviews by changing the name of the listing, and no background check of the security guard was conducted even though he had access to all the rooms on site.
Airbnb, in a statement, said it had removed the villa where Ms. Stefaniak had stayed from its platform, and had been in contact with the authorities. The company also said it had made strides to address women’s safety concerns, partnering with rights organizations and violence-prevention groups in local communities, and creating policies that emphasize women’s needs. 
That includes removing any host or guest accused of sexual assault from the platform and including a clause in its nondiscrimination policy that allows female hosts to accept only female guests.
Seasoned solo travelers say that preparation can be the key to minimizing risk.
For Cassie DePecol, 29, who holds the Guinness World Record for “the fastest time to visit all sovereign countries,” traveling alone means having a long list of precautions. The Connecticut-born activist practices Krav Maga, an Israeli self-defense technique. She carries a GPS tracker. She makes sure someone knows where she is at all times.
“Some of these might sound extreme,” she said. “But I attribute having safely traveled to 196 countries alone to these specific procedures.”
Ms. DePecol says that gender-based violence is an unfortunate reality for women who travel.
“The awareness of needing to always watch our backs when we’re both alone and in public places is something that men don’t necessarily need to be aware of,” she said.
Jessica Nabongo, 34, is on a mission to become the first black woman to visit every country in the world. Born in Detroit, she has been to 158 so far — 54 of them alone — and hopes to complete her journey in October.
Her road map for safety includes trying to stay in hotels with 24-hour security. If she stays in an Airbnb, the host has to have received consistently excellent reviews and achieved “superhost” status. She takes Ubers so that her location is tracked.
Ms. Nabongo acknowledged that “we tell women what not to do to avoid being attacked instead of telling men not to attack women.” 
But she says she dresses conservatively until she can assess whether what she wears matters in the place she is visiting.
She would prefer a world where women can just pack up and travel without having to do the extra legwork that solo male travelers don’t have to, but says that’s idealistic.
 Ms. Nabongo, however, like many women’s advocates, believes that any focus on the way women dress — or the fact that they travel alone at all — provides a convenient scapegoat and does not address the true causes of gender-based violence and rape culture.
Most headlines tend to highlight the experiences of young, white or Western victims — partly because of a dearth of public data on any violent experiences of women of color who travel alone. But Ms. Nabongo noted that as a black woman traveling solo, she has to deal with a whole other level of safety concerns, anxiety and fear.
“In many European cities that I’ve been in — like Barcelona, Madrid, Rome, Milano — women of color are in more danger because a lot of people think we are prostitutes,” she said. “My fear is always that if something happens to me in a European city, no one will care. I could be running down the street screaming in Italy and onlookers won’t care because I’m black.”
To help one another traverse the world safely, women have formed their own online communities.
Dianelle Rivers-Mitchell founded Black Girls Travel Too, which coordinates group travel, to serve a growing market. On her company’s Facebook site, thousands of women share tips on where to stay, eat and visit, and hash out safety concerns.
“We are each other’s keeper, especially when it comes to travel,” said Ms. Rivers-Mitchell. 
Apps provide another level of support for women traveling alone. Free ones like Chirpey, RedZone, MayDay, Tripwhistle and Noonlight let women flag incidents and areas of danger, and contact local law enforcement.
Even with the best preparation, trips can go wrong.
Born and raised in Moscow, Vasilisa Komarova grew up in the 1980s behind the Soviet Iron Curtain. She studied law, moved to London, learned English and became a British citizen. But she dreamed of traveling the wider world.
In 2016, at 35, she embarked on a solo motorcycle journey through the Americas. 
She visited Cuba and spent time in the Atacama Desert and Chilean Patagonia. She linked up with motorcyclists and got odd jobs in a bike shop and in fitness training. She was living a dream, chronicling it all with photos on Instagram and posts on Facebook.
Then, everything changed.
“At some point, maybe because everyone I was meeting was so kind, I think I put down my guard a little,” she said. 
While she was camping in northern Bolivia on June 4, 2017, in an area people had told her was safe, three men with machetes dragged her out of her tent. They beat her, dislocating her arm in three places. While two held her down, one raped her. Then they broke her motorcycle, stole her belongings, urinated on her tent and left her for dead.
Afraid that they might come back, Ms. Komarova lay still all night. When the sun rose, she used her laptop, which her attackers had missed, to summon help.
 But what she experienced was a climate of impunity, she said. 
The authorities didn’t want to take her to a doctor; the doctor didn’t want to see her because she could not pay.
“Only after the Russian Embassy was involved did the police listen,” Ms. Komarova said.
But the embassy retreated after connecting her with the local authorities, saying she was not in immediate danger. She felt she was on her own.
Experts say such a response isn’t unusual. “Some of these law enforcers are themselves part of the problem, and they do not take these crimes as seriously as they need to,” Ms. Mlambo-Ngcuka, of UN Women, said.
Bolivian and Russian authorities did not respond to several requests for comment.
With the help of the British Embassy, Ms. Komarova, made contact with an advocate who helped her file a criminal complaint and begin the legal fight against her attackers.
Ms. Komarova said she knew she had to be her own biggest advocate; she couldn’t move forward in her journey or return home without getting some form of justice. But between the local bureaucracy and the corruption, she said, it was an arduous fight.
“The attack, the process, it broke me down,” Ms. Komarova said. “But I had to find strength inside myself.”
A year later, she watched as her attackers were sentenced to a combined 42 years in prison.
In November, Ms. Komarova rode out of Bolivia on her motorcycle. The first night she put her tent up after leaving, she was afraid, she admitted. She is still on the road, and wants other women to travel, but to be on alert — always.
“My guard is really high,” Ms. Komarova said by Skype from Ecuador. “People don’t always deserve my skepticism, but that is how it is. That’s how it has to be.”
As for Ms. Gavios, she is still partly paralyzed, but since the attack, she has become a yoga instructor and has learned Krav Maga. Last fall, she completed the New York City Marathon — on crutches. 
“It hasn’t prevented me from moving forward or traveling by myself,” she said. “I don’t feel defeated.”
She says she doesn’t want her experience to scare other women away from having the rich, eye-opening experience of traveling solo.
“The more we tell women not to travel alone and the more we send the message that the world is very dangerous, in a way, we are also supporting that belief,” Ms. Gavios said. “Rather than horrifying people, I want people to go into it with a little more bravery and a little more knowledge.”
From her perspective, there are no dangerous countries, just dangerous people.
“It sucks, but you can’t control the world,” she said, adding, “But you also have to go out and live your life and not let these terrible stories stop you.
“Because otherwise, you let them win.”
Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.
SANTA ANA, Calif. — For its members, a motorcycle club’s logo is both sacred and hard-earned, the banner under which its brand of rugged brotherhood and individualism exist.
But in a setback to the future of one of the country’s most notorious biker groups, a federal jury in California on Friday found that the Mongols motorcycle club must forfeit its rights to the trademarked Genghis Khan-style emblem that identifies the organization.
The jury’s verdict — which concluded the second phase of a wide-ranging eight-week racketeering trial in which jurors also branded the Mongols a criminal enterprise — was not the final word. The group’s lawyers have filed a motion for acquittal and the presiding judge, who in the past has ruled in favor of the Mongols, said he would not immediately order the club to forfeit the logo until he has a chance to review the club’s arguments and consider their free speech rights.
Going after their trademark, which prosecutors have sought for a decade, was an innovative approach intended to break the Mongols by striking at its visual identity, a patch that has been linked to the organization’s culture of violence and intimidation and appears on the vests, T-shirts, caps, mouse pads and motorcycles of hundreds of its members, many of whom also have tattoos of the image.
The Santa Ana, Calif., jury last month convicted the biker club of racketeering, and racketeering conspiracy for the crimes of murder, attempted murder and drug dealing committed by individual members over the past dozen years.
In addition to the logos, the jury found Friday that the government could keep various items bearing the mark — including vests, clothing and documents such as the Mongols’ constitution — as well as a number of guns, ammunition and armored vests it had seized in earlier raids against the group. But the jury denied forfeiture rights for belt buckles, jewelry, lighters, bandannas, stickers, and motorcycle parts — apparently unable to find the “required nexus” between the items and the group’s criminal activity.
Friday’s verdict confounded Mongols members and their lawyers. Stephen Stubbs, the club’s general counsel, described the outcome as “very strange” because the jury did not find the logo forfeitable on the count of racketeering, but did so on the racketeering conspiracy count.
“How can we make sense out of that?” Mr. Stubbs said, adding that it appeared to be a compromise verdict, one agreed upon so the jury could go home after long days of deliberations. “So, we continue to fight so that Americans can’t be banned by the government from wearing symbols.”
[Read: How to Crush an Outlaw Biker Club: Seize Its … Logo?]
Robert Draskovich, a Las Vegas lawyer who has represented the Hells Angels and the Bandidos on criminal matters, said that while the verdicts were a potential “death blow” for the Mongols, the outcome was also foreboding for other motorcycle clubs that have been the focus of law enforcement ire over the years.
“I would say that other clubs are now liable and in danger of being targeted, trampled on and dismantled,” Mr. Draskovich said.
Because the case was focused on the organization itself, no members or associates faced any time behind bars.
But in many ways, some lawyers said, stripping the club of its identifying mark was worse.
“It is the holy of holies,” said Fritz Clapp, a lawyer who has done intellectual property work for the Hells Angels and the Devils Diciples motorcycle clubs.
Indeed, “everyone in the bike gang business agrees that you never want to lose your colors because it shows you can’t defend your turf,” Terry Katz, a board member of the International Outlaw Motorcycle Gang Investigators Association, said in an interview. “And without that set of colors, you are not rock stars.”
The emblem at issue is a black-and-white rendering of the word “MONGOLS” over a drawing of a cartoonish Genghis Khan-like figure sporting a queue and brandishing a sword while riding a chopper motorcycle.
Other lawyers opined that the forfeiture verdict would not hold up on constitutional grounds.
“It is clearly an overreach to sweep up all innocent people by virtue of being part of a motorcycle club,” said Richard Gaxiola, a Phoenix lawyer who has represented the Hells Angels for 15 years.
United States District Judge David O. Carter, who has scheduled a hearing for Feb. 28, acknowledged that the verdicts would likely face constitutional challenges. Talking to lawyers in the case last month, without the jury in the courtroom, Judge Carter said that since the “forfeiture provision is quite literally without limitation, it may exceed constitutional bounds in a particular case.”
The government has long sought the group’s trademarked patch. A seizure order a decade ago was unable to withstand a constitutional challenge after a Mongols member, Ramon Rivera, who was not indicted on any criminal charges, filed a complaint with the help of the American Civil Liberties Union and successfully argued that the confiscation of Mongols items violated his First Amendment and due process rights.
Experts in intellectual property law said that efforts to gain control of the trademark rights to the logo were not enough to claim ownership of them.
“You are only a trademark owner if you are using it in commerce or as a collective membership mark, like the Mongols,” said Viva Moffat, a professor at the University of Denver’s Sturm College of Law who specializes in intellectual property law.
During the trial, prosecutors for the United States attorney’s office for the Central District of California argued that the Mongols club was a violent criminal enterprise to its core and that its leaders were aware of the illicit activities of its members and associates.
Prosecutors presented the jury with a battery of crimes over the years allegedly carried out by Mongols members, ranging from drug dealing to firearms offenses to murder, including the fatal shooting of a Pomona, Calif., police officer in 2014.
Assistant United States Attorney Steven R. Welk told the jury this week that the Mongols club was a gang that had been “a beehive of pernicious criminal activity” since it was founded in Montebello, Calif., in 1969.
“These men, fueled by, based on the evidence which you’ve heard, by rage and methamphetamine, empowered by these symbols that they wear like armor, roaming the world like urban predators searching for people to victimize,” Mr. Welk said.
The roots of the government’s case date back to 2005, when undercover agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives set out to infiltrate the Mongols. Known as Operation Black Rain, it was a notably large undertaking for the A.T.F., a three-year investigation in which four agents managed to become full members.
The result was a jarring blow to the club. In October 2008, a grand jury returned an 86-count federal racketeering indictment against 79 Mongols, alleging crimes from murder to drug trafficking to money laundering. The lead defendant was Ruben (Doc) Cavazos, the club’s national president until he was voted out weeks before the charges were filed. Except for one defendant who died in custody and another who was deemed incompetent, all those charged eventually pleaded guilty.
Calling the prosecution’s case “the best book of fiction I’ve ever heard in my life,” Joseph A. Yanny used part of his closing statements last month to assail the integrity of the A.T.F. He argued that its agents used entrapment and lies to build their cases against the Mongols.
Mr. Yanny also stated that crimes carried out by Mongols were “spontaneous rogue acts of individuals” that were not hatched or approved by club officers. Referring to the brutal 1991 beating of Rodney King by a group of Los Angeles police officers, he told the jury “that doesn’t make the L.A.P.D. a criminal organization.”
This week, Mr. Yanny told the jury before it deliberated over the fate of the Mongols marks, “It’s the death penalty phase of this case. Have they made mistakes? We never denied that they have. Have they cleaned up their act? You bet they have.”
The case has highlighted how resolved prosecutors are to hobble motorcycle organizations like the Mongols, which rely on striking optics to convey an air of toughness and intimidation, and how determined biker groups are to protect their logos.
David Santillan, the national president of the Mongols, said in an interview that the club has spent more than $1.5 million in lawyers’ fees over the last 10 years to fight the government’s charges. “You can’t put a price on our patch,” Mr. Santillan said. “It’s priceless.”
CARACAS, Venezuela — Risking arrest, Venezuela’s opposition leader attended a rally on Friday in his first public appearance since he declared himself president, and told supporters to maintain pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”
The rally in eastern Caracas, where at least 500 people converged in a square ringed by police officers, was peaceful and orderly, and there was no immediate indication that the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, would be taken into custody, as many had feared.
At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro, who had been furiously describing his adversary as the lackey of an American-backed coup plot, appeared to take a more conciliatory approach, calling for dialogue.
Alluding to reports of clandestine meetings that had taken place between opposition members and people in Mr. Maduro’s orbit, he even expressed a willingness to attend such meetings himself. “If I have to use a hood or go naked, however I have to go,” Mr. Maduro said at a news conference.
It was not immediately clear why he seemed to be taking a softer tone. But Mr. Maduro’s call for dialogue appeared to signal that the standoff between the government and Mr. Guaidó may be shifting.
Opposition lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Maduro may sense that loyalty to him among the security forces may be slipping as support for Mr. Guaidó grows.
William Brownfield, a former American ambassador to Venezuela who is regarded as among the foremost experts on its government, said it was notable that Mr. Guaidó had not been arrested.
“For the first time,” Mr. Brownfield said, “you have an opposition leader who is clearly signaling to the armed forces and to law enforcement that he wants to keep them on the side of the angels and with the good guys.”
Mr. Guaidó began his remarks at the rally by requesting a minute of silence for “victims of brutal repression,” referring to demonstrators who have been killed or wounded in violent protests that flared throughout the past week in Venezuela. The United Nations human rights office said earlier Friday that the death toll stood at 20 or more.
[A short, simple primer on what’s happening in Venezuela.]
“We have awakened from the nightmare, brothers and sisters,” said Mr. Guaidó, the 35-year-old leader of the National Assembly, the opposition-dominated legislature that has been rendered largely powerless by Mr. Maduro.
Over the past few weeks, Mr. Guaidó has emerged as the most direct challenge yet to Mr. Maduro, whose longtime stewardship of Venezuela has plunged the country into a prolonged bout of repression and severe economic decline.
Mr. Guaidó urged supporters to demonstrate peacefully and to distribute copies of an amnesty law the assembly had passed that encourages members of the armed forces to switch their loyalty to him.
But he also said his arrest was a real possibility. “If they dare to kidnap me, I ask you to continue on the path and move forward in a nonviolent manner,” he said.
The rally was held two days after Mr. Guaidó declared himself Venezuela’s legitimate president during a day of nationwide protests that challenged and infuriated Mr. Maduro and his loyalists.
Mr. Maduro called his adversary an American puppet, broke relations with the United States, gave its diplomats 72 hours to leave and ordered Venezuelan diplomats in the United States to return home by this weekend.
The Trump administration and several other countries in the region quickly recognized Mr. Guaidó as Venezuela’s legitimate leader, depicting him as a democratic savior trying to rescue what was once one of Latin America’s most prosperous nations. They say Mr. Maduro was elected fraudulently and should resign.
But Mr. Maduro received an important reassurance on Thursday, when the country’s defense minister pledged that the armed forces would remain loyal to him.
At the same time, Russia, an ally of Mr. Maduro that has provided his government billions of dollars in aid, warned the United States not to meddle in Venezuela’s affairs, effectively placing Venezuela in the middle of a new contest of wills between the Kremlin and Washington.
Mr. Guaidó had largely stayed out of public view after his self-declaration as president, amid speculation that Mr. Maduro’s security forces could take him into custody.
“From them, we can expect anything,” said Milagros Valera, an opposition lawmaker who supports Mr. Guaidó. “But the people will rally behind him and defend him.”
Ms. Valera, who attended the rally at the Simón Bolivar Plaza in Caracas, the capital, said opposition politicians were continuing to hold discreet talks with military leaders and remained hopeful that they would soon build enough support to get large factions to switch sides.
Damelys González, 75, was among those who turned up at the plaza, holding a Venezuelan flag in one hand and a cane in the other.
“We’re fearful, but we need to take to the streets and overcome that fear,” Ms. González said. “The moment is now or never.”
Despite Mr. Guaidó’s call for peaceful demonstrations, violent and sometimes deadly protests have flared repeatedly over the past week.
The United Nations human rights chief in Geneva, Michelle Bachelet, who served two terms as president of Chile, condemned the killings and said she was “extremely concerned that the situation in Venezuela may rapidly spiral out of control with catastrophic consequences.”
[The crisis in Caracas could have repercussions for Venezuelans in the United States, many of whom are seeking asylum.]
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who has implored all nations to recognize Mr. Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, planned to press his case on Saturday at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council in New York.
In a possible sign of Mr. Pompeo’s need for experienced experts to deal with the Venezuela crisis, he announced on Friday that he had appointed Elliott Abrams as a special envoy. Mr. Abrams, a policymaker who served in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, pleaded guilty to withholding information from Congress during the Iran-contra scandal.
The appointment was notable partly because of tensions between Mr. Abrams and Mr. Trump, who had rejected him for a deputy secretary of state job in 2017. Mr. Abrams had criticized Mr. Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Mr. Pompeo also said at a news conference in Washington that he was evaluating the security situation at the embassy in Caracas daily. While Mr. Pompeo had said he would ignore Mr. Maduro’s deadline for all diplomats to leave, the State Department has decided to withdraw most employees and leave only a core team.
“We will make sure we protect our folks on the ground and take all appropriate measures,” he said.
At least 50 Marines were on standby at an undisclosed location in case they are needed to reinforce the embassy in Caracas. They were put on alert Thursday, an American military official said.
Mr. Brownfield, who served as ambassador in Caracas from 2004 to 2007, said the crisis in Venezuela had left Mr. Maduro confronting “the most complicated set of problems” he has ever faced.
“While I’m not prepared to say the endgame is around the corner,” he said, “this is the shakiest things have been and if he survives this, he survives as a wounded animal.”
“The Wedding Guest” soon reveals that it has one of the most misleading titles of the year. It’s a thriller, not a light comedy of manners — but exactly what sort of thriller it will be is something that the director, Michael Winterbottom, keeps tantalizingly at bay.
When we meet Jay (Dev Patel), a stoic, handsome man of mystery, he is departing London for Pakistan. He rents a car and, on what appears to be a lengthy, less-than-straightforward route, stops at a gun shop. We eventually learn he’s looking for a woman named Samira (Radhika Apte). And when he finds her, he ties her up and puts her in the trunk.
Winterbottom, the globe-trotting, genre-hopping British filmmaker, has done well with dark territory before (the 2010 Jim Thompson adaptation “The Killer Inside Me”). And if in the past he’s come across like a dabbler — a director more interested in trying different styles than engaging with any one of them — here, his restless, touristic tendencies suit what might otherwise have been a rote on-the-lam scenario.
The filmmaker wrote the script himself, and read no further to keep the surprises fresh. Samira was indeed about to attend a wedding — her own, to a groom not of her choosing. Jay was hired by Deepesh (Jim Sarbh), the boyfriend the Pakistani-born Samira, who spent part of her upbringing in Britain, has kept secret from her traditional parents. She can go back and get married if she wants, Jay tells her. But if she goes with Deepesh, she’ll never stop running. (It might have been easier to pose this choice before the abduction — and before Jay killed a man during the getaway — but this is a movie that places pacing above sense.)
Deepesh is not the most reliable of paramours, and as Jay and Samira cross into India to meet him, “The Wedding Guest” turns into a rush of international cellphone calls, hotel hide-outs, false identities and phony jewels. The scenery, nicely shot by Giles Nuttgens and covering a wide swath of the country — Amritsar, New Delhi, Jaipur and Goa — is always great, and Patel and Apte’s chemistry approaches scalding levels as their characters grow closer.
Despite all the bobbing and weaving, Winterbottom knows when to pause the proceedings for a ripe, noirish exchange.
“Are you going to kill me?”
“I should.”
“Can I trust you?”
“No.”
For all its absurdities, “The Wedding Guest” makes it tough not to anticipate how that conversation will pan out.
MOSCOW — The lawyer for an imprisoned Russian organized crime figure says the man has been charged in the 1998 assassination of reformist lawmaker Galina Starovoitova.
Starovoitova, a prominent liberal member of the national parliament, was gunned down outside her St. Petersburg residence.
Four people were convicted of taking part in the slaying or organizing it, but who ordered the assassination wasn't determined.
Russian news agencies quoted attorney Konstantin Kuzminikh on Sunday as saying a client of his has also been charged in the killing.
The St. Petersburg news site Fontanka reported that the charged man, Vladimir Barsukov, allegedly expressed a desire for Starovoitova to die.
Barsukov has been behind bars since 2007 and is serving sentences for murder, extortion, fraud and money laundering.
HOUSTON — An attorney for an 18-year-old accused of fatally shooting 10 people at a Texas high school says federal prosecutors plan to file charges against the former student after they had previously indicated they would not.
Attorney Nick Poehl says Dimitrios Pagourtzis was taken into federal custody Monday and was set to appear in federal court in Galveston at 1 p.m.
Poehl says he doesn't know what federal charges were filed.
Pagourtzis has been charged with capital murder in state court for the May 18, 2018 shooting at Santa Fe High School in Galveston County.
Last month, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Texas said no federal charges would likely be filed.
A spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office didn't immediately return an email seeking comment.
The murder of 50 Muslim worshipers in New Zealand, allegedly by a 28-year-old Australian white supremacist, will be long scrutinized for the way violent hatreds are spawned and staged on social media and the internet. But now the world should learn from the way Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand’s prime minister, has responded to the horror.
Almost immediately after last Friday’s killings, Ms. Ardern listened to her constituents’ outrage and declared that within days her government would introduce new controls on the military-style weapons that the Christchurch shooter and many of the mass killers in the United States have used on their rampages. And she delivered.
On Thursday, Ms. Ardern announced a ban on all military-style semiautomatic and automatic weapons, parts that can be used to turn other rifles into such weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines. “It’s about all of us,” she said, “it’s in the national interest and it’s about safety.”
Earlier in the week, she told Parliament that social media sites must address the ease with which the internet can be used to spew hate and images of violence. “We cannot simply sit back and accept that these platforms just exist and that what is said on them is not the responsibility of the place where they are published,” she said. “It cannot be a case of all profit, no responsibility.”
Ms. Ardern didn’t propose immediate measures to limit the reach of Facebook, Twitter and other internet publishers, and it’s not obvious what could be done without trampling freedom of speech. But she made clear that she believed that those social media platforms, like gun manufacturers and dealers, bore some responsibility for the carnage visited on Christchurch and so many communities in recent years.
The new gun proposal will require considerable fine-tuning and defining before it becomes law. New Zealand’s existing laws are relatively lenient, and a large percentage of the estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms owned by about 250,000 people are not registered. It is not known how many of these will become illegal under the new laws. 
But the display of what one deranged man can do with weapons designed for combat seemed to persuade a majority of New Zealanders, and a strong majority in Parliament, of the need to ban rapid-firing weapons.
That attitude stood in stark contrast to the way the National Rifle Association and its political allies in the United States have resisted any restrictions on weapons like the AR-15, the semiautomatic rifle used in several mass killings.
In New Zealand, it took one mass shooting to awaken the government. In the United States, even a string of mass killings — 26 dead in a school in Newtown, Conn.; 49 in a nightclub in Orlando; 58 at a concert in Las Vegas; 17 in a school in Parkland, Fla. — has not been enough. Nor has the fact that 73 percent of Americans say that more needs to be done to curb gun violence, according to recent polling. 
The ban on terrorists’ weapon of choice was only one of the areas in which Ms. Ardern showed what leadership looks like in time of crisis. In lieu of trite messages, she donned a black head scarf and led a group of politicians to visit victims’ families; speaking without a script to a school some of the victims attended, she urged the pupils to “let New Zealand be a place where there is no tolerance for racism. Ever.” She told grieving families, “We cannot know your grief, but we can walk with you at every stage.”
And in a striking gesture, she refused to utter the name of the suspected killer. “He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing,” she said. “Not even his name.”
After this and any such atrocity, the world’s leaders should unite in clearly condemning racism, sharing in the grief of the victims and stripping the haters of their weapons. Ms. Ardern has shown the way.
FRONT PAGE
An article on Friday about Paul N. Whelan’s arrest in Russia described incorrectly his university education. Mr. Whelan attended Northern Michigan University from the fall semester of 1988 until the fall semester of 1990 but did not complete his bachelor’s degree, according to the school; he did not graduate from the University of Michigan. (The information came from Mr. Whelan’s Russian social media account, where he said he studied at the University of Michigan.)
NATIONAL
An article on Wednesday about how Native Americans have been affected by the government shutdown, using information from an Interior Department report from January 2018, gave outdated figures for the number of employees set to be furloughed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. It is 2,295 of 4,057, not 2,662 of 4,490.
BUSINESS
The Wheels column on Friday about high-end sound systems for cars misidentified an Acura model in reference to sound profiles. The RLX has a sound profile different from the hybrid versions, not the RDX.
WEEKEND ARTS
An article on Friday about recommended winter TV series misstated the premiere date for the third season of “High Maintenance.” It will debut on Jan. 20, not Jan. 19.
ARTS & LEISURE
An article on Page 1 about the artists Gillie and Marc Schattner, using information from the artists and the MetroTech BID, misidentifies the organization that secured “The Last Three” sculpture in Brooklyn’s MetroTech Commons. While MetroTech Commons is a privately operated space within the MetroTech BID, the BID did not secure the work. The error is repeated in a picture caption. The article also misstates Jennifer Lantzas’s position with the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation. She is its deputy director of public art, not its public arts coordinator.
TRAVEL
An article on Page 1 about Jada Yuan’s experiences traveling the world for The New York Times misstates the surname of a woman who was murdered in Washington last year. She was Wendy Martinez, not Marina. The article also misidentifies a farmer in Puerto Rico who told her and a friend about a party. He is Elmer Sánchez, not Rafael.
OBITUARIES
An obituary on Friday about Herb Kelleher, the co-founder of Southwest Airlines, misstated his middle name. It was David, not Dwight.
Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.
To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).
Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.
MEXICO CITY — United Nations human rights chief Michelle Bachelet said on Tuesday the deadly toll of Mexico's rampant gangland violence was reminiscent of the era in her native Chile when thousands died or disappeared during a military dictatorship.
Bachelet, a former Chilean president, concluded a five-day visit to Mexico where she met with victims of violence as well as government officials and pushed for a full accounting of past abuses.
She told reporters at a news conference that stories of anguish she heard from the families of victims reminded her of the darkest days of the police state that Augusto Pinochet oversaw in Chile during the 1970s and 1980s.
"It was like returning to a part of my own history," she said.
During the military dictatorship in Chile from 1973 to 1990, about 3,000 people were killed or disappeared and 28,000 others were victims of torture, including Bachelet and her father, an air force general.
In Mexico, homicides rose by one-third last year, according to government data, breaking a record for the second consecutive year as more than 33,000 murder cases were opened.
In her prepared remarks, Bachelet cited other "terrifying figures," including 26,000 bodies that Mexican officials have not been able to identify and 850 mass graves dug up.
"It was moving for me to meet with the families," she added. "They have the same cries, the same calls for truth and justice."
Since late 2006, vicious internecine strife among drug cartels and their clashes with the state have been blamed for more than 200,000 deaths in Mexico.
The government has succeeded in taking down cartel bosses, but that has often led to fragmentation of the gangs and more killings.
Bachelet said the violence in Mexico had unique characteristics and that the country suffered from weak rule of law.
"The truth is you have laws for everything," she said, her voice rising. "There isn't a lack of laws, but rather a need to implement them."
Asked about crisis-racked Venezuela, Bachelet said her office continued to monitor the violation of human rights and humanitarian needs in the South American country.
Last month, Bachelet issued a blistering report on excessive use of force by Venezuelan security forces and pro-government militias, including extra-judicial executions.
She said a visit to Venezuela was possible "relatively soon," but emphasized she wanted to guard her office's neutrality.
 (Reporting by David Alire Garcia; Editing by Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to decide whether Lee Malvo, the younger of the two men who terrorized the Washington region with sniper shootings in the fall of 2002, may challenge his sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole.
The court also agreed to hear constitutional challenges to state laws allowing non-unanimous juries and barring the insanity defense.
Mr. Malvo, now 34, was 17 when he and John Allen Muhammad killed 10 people in sniper attacks in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia. Mr. Muhammad was sentenced to death, and he was executed in 2009.
Mr. Malvo was sentenced to life in prison by judges in both Virginia and Maryland. He challenged his Virginia sentences under Supreme Court decisions that limited life sentences for juvenile offenders.
The central legal issues in the case the Supreme Court agreed to hear, Mathena v. Malvo, No. 18-217, was whether Mr. Malvo had been sentenced under a law that made a life sentence mandatory and whether the Supreme Court decisions applied retroactively to Mr. Malvo.
In June, a unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals, in Richmond, Va., ruled that Mr. Malvo was entitled to new sentencing hearings.
“To be clear,” Judge Paul V. Niemeyer wrote for the panel, “the crimes committed by Malvo and John Muhammad were the most heinous, random acts of premeditated violence conceivable, destroying lives and families and terrorizing the entire Washington, D.C., metropolitan area for over six weeks, instilling mortal fear daily in the citizens of that community.”
“But Malvo was 17 years old when he committed the murders, and he now has the retroactive benefit of new constitutional rules that treat juveniles differently for sentencing,” Judge Niemeyer wrote.
“We make this ruling not with any satisfaction but to sustain the law,” the judge concluded. “As for Malvo, who knows but God how he will bear the future.”
Virginia officials asked the Supreme Court to review that ruling, noting that the state’s Supreme Court had come to the opposite conclusion on the legal question in the case.
The United States Supreme Court also agreed to decide whether the Constitution allows non-unanimous verdicts in criminal cases.
The case, Ramos v. Louisiana, No. 18-5924, concerns Evangelisto Ramos, a Louisiana man who was convicted in 2016 for killing a woman in New Orleans. The jury’s vote was 10 to 2, which was enough under the state’s law at the time. Louisiana has since amended its state Constitution to bar non-unanimous verdicts, but the move came too late to help Mr. Ramos.
Oregon is the last remaining state that allows non-unanimous verdicts in criminal cases.
In a pair of decisions in 1972, one each from Oregon and Louisiana, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution does not require states to insist on unanimity. Critics say the decisions ignored the historical record and made assumptions about jury behavior that have been called into question by more recent research.
The court also agreed to decide whether states may abolish the dominant version of the insanity defense. The case concerns James Kahler, who was sentenced to death for killing four family members. His lawyers said he suffered “from depression so severe that he experienced extreme emotional disturbance, dissociating him from reality.”
“Although he knew that he was shooting human beings,” Mr. Kahler’s lawyers said of their client, “his mental state was so disturbed at the time that he was unable to control his actions.”
Kansas is one of five states in which defendants cannot avoid criminal punishment by showing that their mental illness prevented them from knowing their actions were wrong. In their petition seeking review in the case, Kahler v. Kansas, No. 18-6135, lawyers for Mr. Kahler wrote that the state’s approach “defies a fundamental, centuries-old precept of our legal system: People cannot be punished for crimes for which they are not morally culpable.”
The Kansas law, they wrote, violates the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment and the Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee of due process.
Lawyers for Kansas responded that the state had refined but not eliminated the insanity defense, allowing defendants to argue instead that “as a result of mental disease” they “lacked the mental state required” to be convicted.
Goodness knows I’m loath to write anything these days that would feed Donald Trump’s ego. But this time it’s unavoidable. There is a new global political era emerging that, while not entirely attributable to Trump, his party and his administration, they’ve surely played a huge role in fostering. A variety of analysts have now given this era the same name: “Anything goes.” And for good reason.
Look around the world and not only do you see a democratic recession — the number of democracies abandoning their democratic bona fides with sham elections is steadily mounting — but you see something much more grotesque: Leaders are grabbing power for life, murdering or jailing even the mildest of critics and shamelessly building coalitions with openly racist and bigoted parties.
Most important, they’re doing it with utter impunity — confident that either no one is watching or no one will meaningfully call them out.
This is what happens when people think America isn’t looking, doesn’t care or worse, has a president, himself having uttered over 9,000 lies and misleading statements, who has zero moral authority to call out others. When it comes to being a global watchdog that tries to enforce some basic norms of decency, America under Trump is out to lunch — and a lot of people have figured that out, and so anything goes.
“It’s not just that liberal democracy is retreating under pressure from demagogic politicians exploiting the stresses of globalization, rising inequality, economic insecurity, job displacement, immigration, and so on,” argues Larry Diamond, author of a prescient new book, “Ill Winds: Saving Democracy From Russian Rage, Chinese Ambition, and American Complacency.” “It’s that authoritarian forces everywhere perceive that there is no longer any price to pay for ruling as nastily as they want.”
So, today, “every type of regime is getting worse,” Diamond adds. “Liberal democracies are becoming more intolerant. Illiberal democracies are electing authoritarian personalities like President Duterte in the Philippines, who are purging judges and locking up journalists who dare to criticize them. Authoritarian regimes that once coexisted with pockets of opposition no longer see the need to bother. In Cambodia, the party of the long-ruling dictator, Hun Sen, now controls every seat in Parliament. And China is now constructing the first truly Orwellian surveillance state.”
It all makes some of the lyrics of Cole Porter’s classic song seem so ahead of their time:
The world has gone mad today/ And good’s bad today/ And black’s white today/ And day’s night today/ And that gent today/ You gave a cent today/ Once had several chateaux …/ Anything goes.
Just think of those shocks you’ve got/ And those knocks you’ve got/ And those blues you’ve got/ From that news you’ve got/ And those pains you’ve got/ (If any brains you’ve got) …/ ’Cause Franklin knows/ Anything goes.
When America, the world’s most influential democracy, has a leader without shame, who is backed by a party without spine willing to prostitute itself to Trump no matter how low he goes — and both are protected by a virtually state-run network without integrity, called Fox — it becomes a hunting license for leaders everywhere to go after their own domestic opponents and cross any human rights redline to stay in power.
And we’re talking about some close allies. Last week, Israel’s attorney general recommended that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu be indicted on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust in connection with three different corruption cases. This comes just after Netanyahu forged a political alliance with an openly racist, anti-Arab party.
Netanyahu’s new political ally, the Otzma Yehudit (Jewish Power) party, traces its lineage to Rabbi Meir Kahane’s outlawed Kach Party, which advocated annexing the West Bank, expelling the Palestinians who lived there and resettling Israeli Arabs in Arab countries. Otzma’s leader, Michael Ben-Ari, with whom Bibi made his alliance, was denied a visa to the U.S. in 2012 on the grounds of being associated with a violent extremist group.
Among Otzma’s leaders, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency reported, “is former Kahane aide Baruch Marzel, a resident of Hebron who holds a party every year at the grave of Baruch Goldstein, who in 1994 massacred 29 Palestinians at the Cave of the Patriarchs.”
These are the people Netanyahu wants to bring into his government. Why not? Bibi knows that no matter how low he sinks, Trump will always have his back.
Yes, politics can be a dirty business, “but there are sacred areas in which you don’t play politics, where there has to be a boundary,” says Hebrew University philosopher Moshe Halbertal. And making an alliance “with a racist party is one of them. Because when you do that you actually inflate them and send a message about what kind of speech is permissible.”
You may think that “they are just a means to your ends,” adds Halbertal. “But in the end, they will control you, they will dominate your identity,” and, in Bibi’s case, “they will define who he is, who is Israel, who is Israel in the eyes of world Jewry and who is Israel in the eyes of the world.”
Our enemies and rivals are also worse than ever. Iran has been deeply complicit in the ethnic cleansing of Sunnis in Iraq and Syria, in the use of poison gas by Syria’s regime and in the crushing of Lebanese democracy through its proxy the Hezbollah militia. 
But Iran gets away with it. The Iranians know that U.S. human rights activists are so focused on Saudi Arabia’s vile murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi and its bombings in Yemen that they’re ignoring Iran’s misbehavior. So anything goes.
China’s government has felt free enough to admit that it’s been forcing religious minorities, particularly Chinese Muslims, into “re-education camps” to eliminate “extremism.” But news seeping out of these camps indicates they have “a lot more in common with concentration camps. Thousands of guards carrying spiked clubs, tear gas and stun guns surveil the government’s ‘students,’ who are held in buildings ringed with razor wire and infrared cameras,” said Vox, citing a recent report by Agence France-Presse.
Allies of Egypt’s president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, are well on their way to amending the Egyptian Constitution to make him, in effect, president for life, or at least until 2034, and give even more power to the military. El-Sisi, who made this power grab after a visit from and praise by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, has also arrested far more Egyptians for the mildest of criticism, and snuffed out far more press freedoms, than his predecessor Hosni Mubarak — without a peep out of America.
In Uganda, 74-year-old President Yoweri Museveni got age limits abolished so he can, in effect, also become president for life, after sending troops onto the floor of Parliament to beat up opposition lawmakers objecting to the move. 
Larry Diamond says, “A leading Ugandan human rights lawyer wrote to me that with Trump in the White House and Europe silent and democratic norms generally in retreat, African rulers like Museveni now feel emboldened to rule as long and as brutally as they want.”
Again, whether it is the presidents of China, Egypt, Uganda, Russia and Turkey all basically making themselves into presidents for life, or Bibi forging an alliance with a racist politician banned from America so that he can cling to power in Israel, or the Saudi crown prince’s team murdering moderate journalist/critic Jamal Khashoggi, or allies Poland, Brazil and Hungary all drifting away from democracy under the sway of power-hungry nationalists, it’s obvious that none of them, none of them, ever bothered to ask themselves before their respective moves, “But what will the Americans say if we do this?”
They knew the answer: Anything goes.
PARIS — The rumors — circulated on social media in recent weeks through worried messages, shaky videos or grainy screenshots — were alarming.
Groups of kidnappers were roaming the poorer suburbs of Paris in utility vans to snatch children. There was talk of organ trafficking. On Facebook, users posted pictures of purported abductors, urging people to be on the lookout. On Snapchat and Twitter, they posted videos of vans speeding away, proof of an attempted getaway.
Accusations focused on the Roma, sometimes called Gypsies — an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 of whom are from Eastern Europe, mainly Bulgaria and Romania, and who live in squalid camps on the fringes of France’s cities, where they face persistent discrimination, including stereotypes of rampant thievery.
It turned out that the rumors were false. No kidnappings or even attempted kidnappings have been reported to the police. But this week, the accusations were suddenly followed by an outburst of violence — the latest example of social media being used to fan prejudice — with dangerous, or even deadly, consequences.
On Monday evening, dozens of young men wielding sticks and knives attacked a Roma camp and burned two vans in Bobigny, in the northeastern suburbs of Paris. Another clash broke out there later that night between armed groups of young men and Roma.
Some Roma were also attacked in Clichy-sous-Bois, another northeastern suburb, and the following day two Roma men were hospitalized after they were beaten nearby, in Aulnay-sous-Bois. One video on social media — it was unclear when it had been filmed — showed a group of men pelting a van with stones and threatening those inside.
Nineteen people, including two minors, have been arrested, according to the prosecutor’s office in Bobigny. Advocacy groups said they had also received reports of verbal threats against Roma or gunshots fired to intimidate them.
Anina Ciuciu, a spokeswoman for the advocacy group La Voix des Rroms, said that social networks and messaging apps had made it easier to spread negative rumors about the Roma. She said too little was being done to take down violent hate speech and to protect the Roma.
“It’s not just fake information that is being circulated; it’s calls to murder,” she said. “Like everybody else, the Roma have a right to security.”
Accusations of child-stealing by Roma are hardly new, Ms. Ciuciu said.
“It’s an ancestral rumor that goes back to the Middle Ages,” she said. “It’s a stereotype that preys upon people’s deepest fears, and it sets off completely irrational reactions, like what we are seeing now.”
This week, the authorities rushed to stop the rumor mill from churning out more violence. “FAKE RUMORS and FAKE NEWS,” the police for the northern Val d’Oise suburb said in a tweet. “Rumors of child kidnappings with a van are completely unfounded,” said the Paris police prefecture. Several mayors issued statements to soothe worried parents.
The ubiquity of social media and instant messaging apps has made such rumors quicker to spread, with a wider reach. People can be rapidly exposed to alarming messages or to photos and videos that are stripped of any context and that are presented as proof of a crime.
In some countries, the results have been deadly. Dozens were killed in India last year by mobs after false rumors about child kidnappers went viral on WhatsApp, the messaging app owned by Facebook. Similar rumors have led to lynchings in Indonesia and Mexico, and social media has played a crucial role in stoking ethnic and religious violence in countries like Sri Lanka and Myanmar.
Benjamin Griveaux, who was the French government spokesman until he resigned on Wednesday to pursue a run for Paris mayor, said that this week’s violence was “detestable” and showed “the absolute necessity to fight against fake news.”
France passed a contentious law last year to counter the “manipulation of information,” but it is meant mainly for electoral races, giving candidates the possibility to ask judges to block content deemed false during a three-month period preceding an election, for instance.
Another bill, set to be discussed in Parliament in May, will outline new rules to fight hate speech online, but it is not specifically intended to stop rumors from spreading over the internet. French law already makes it illegal to spread false news, with offenders facing a fine of 45,000 euros, or more than $50,000.
And while the internet has made it easier to debunk hoaxes, it can also reignite those that would otherwise have died down, said Pascal Froissart, a sociologist at the Université Paris 8 who has specialized in the study of rumors. Rumors of child kidnappers in vans, for instance, had surfaced in past months and years.
“The problem with the internet is that you leave traces,” Mr. Froissart told Europe1 radio on Thursday. “All it takes is for a message to resurface online and be misinterpreted or reinterpreted, and off it goes again.”
TUCSON, Ariz. — A Tucson man just convicted of murder in the stabbing death of his girlfriend waited until jurors left the courtroom before turning and punching one of his defense lawyers in the side of the head.
The Arizona Daily Star reports that sheriff's deputies then wrestled 28-year-old Chet Jack Wadsworth Maley to the floor as additional deputies ran into the courtroom Friday.,
When court resumed, Maley wasn't in the courtroom and paramedics arrived to tend to attorney Craig Kessler.
The judge presiding over the case then granted a motion by another defense lawyer to allow public defenders to withdraw as Maley's counsel and appointed a contracted attorney to represent Maley in his May 13 sentencing in the killing of Roxanne Ortiz and in an assault case stemming from the courtroom attack.
LOS ANGELES — A Southern California man was arrested on suspicion of murder and driving drunk in the death of a motorcycle officer with the California Highway Patrol, officials said Sunday.
Michael Callahan of Winchester was booked on the charges in the death of California Highway Patrol Sgt. Steve Licon, said Officer Steve Carapia.
Callahan is suspected of driving drunk Saturday afternoon when he crossed over the right shoulder of Interstate 15 in Lake Elsinore, crashing into Licon and a car he had pulled over for speeding.
Licon died at a nearby hospital. The family of four in the car he had pulled over weren't hurt.
It's unclear if Callahan has an attorney. Inmate records show he has a court appearance set for Wednesday.
Investigators believe the recommendation of a murder charge in the case is "completely appropriate," said Mario Lucio, special services commander of CHP's Inland division.
"We have uncovered evidence which shows gross negligence both during and before this tragic collision," Lucio said at a Sunday news conference.
He declined to explain what the evidence was. Ultimately, prosecutors will decide what charges to file.
Licon was a 27-year veteran of the agency and is survived by his wife, daughter and stepdaughter.
Licon's body was taken to the coroner's office in a slow and somber procession on Saturday night.
Acting Gov. Eleni Kounalakis ordered flags to be flown at half-staff at the state Capitol, and the California Highway Patrol is holding a bell tribute ceremony in his honor on Monday.
Carapia, who knew Licon for six years, said the sergeant was well-liked and known for his work ethic and a distinct and quirky high-pitched laugh.
"He had a great sense of humor," Carapia said. "You could hear him laughing from the sergeant's office. You could hear him coming down the hallway ... Just an all-around great human being."
He said Licon loved his job and the fact that his office was on a motorcycle.
"This is a tough one," he said. "It hits you to the core."
Lucio said Licon used to be his sergeant when he was coming up in the agency and helped shape his career and that of many other younger officers.
"He loved mentoring the troops," Lucio said. "The guy really spent time developing the officers he supervised."
He said the sergeant's death should be a strong reminder to the public that drinking and driving is never acceptable.
"We lost a darned good sergeant," he said. "He's going to be missed."
Police departments and officers across the state took to social media to post about Licon.
CHP Commissioner Warren Stanley said Licon was a great leader "who sacrificed his life serving the people of California."
CHP Headquarters tweeted that "our hearts are heavy ... Rest easy brother, we have the watch from here."
WASHINGTON — An American hostage who was freed in Yemen in February after nearly 18 months in captivity was rescued in an armed raid led by the United Arab Emirates with help from the United States, according to American and Yemeni officials.
The hostage, Danny Lavone Burch, had been held by a criminal Yemeni gang with a record of kidnapping Westerners for ransom. The gang was known to sell hostages to a powerful local affiliate of Al Qaeda, the officials said.
President Trump hosted Mr. Burch at the White House on Wednesday, crediting his release as a result of “great help from U.A.E. and all of our friends.” The president did not provide details, but also said Mr. Burch’s rescue was one of “a few negotiations” worldwide to free Americans held captive.
“Gosh, it’s great to be an American,” Mr. Burch told a small group of American officials and journalists in the Oval Office.
“This is the end result: a happy man with a happy family,” Mr. Trump said.
More than a half-dozen American and Yemeni officials described parts of the rescue operation on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Burch was retrieved from a cellar where he was being held in a lawless part of Yemen. One senior Yemeni official said seven people were arrested in the raid.
There were conflicting accounts of which military force led the raid. Some officials said it was Emirati special forces. A senior Yemeni official said the raid was coordinated by the emirates but executed by the Hadrami Elite Forces, a Yemeni special forces group that operates under Emirati command.
Mr. Burch was born in Texas and worked for a Yemeni state oil company. He had been living in Yemen since the 1990s, converted to Islam and married a Yemeni woman. He was snatched outside a restaurant in Sana, the Yemeni capital, in September 2017 as he drove his children to a swimming pool.
A week later, a security agency controlled by the Houthi rebels who control Sana blamed the abduction on a gang led by Ali Nasser Huraiqidan, a tribal criminal notorious for kidnapping foreigners for ransom.
An internal Yemeni report on the kidnapping, which was obtained by The New York Times, was based on the interrogation of two gang members who were said to have returned to Sana after driving Mr. Burch to Marib, an oil-rich province east of the capital.
The report said the kidnappers “represent a dangerous criminal gang involved in kidnapping, road blocking and armed robbery.”
Former American officials said the gang had signaled it wanted millions of dollars for Mr. Burch’s safe release. It was feared, the former officials said, that the gang was going sell Mr. Burch to Al Qaeda in Yemen.
In recent years, Mr. Huraiqidan has been accused of holding a Norwegian aid worker, an Italian diplomat and a German official. Mr. Huraiqidan usually held his victims in Marib, where he lives in a fortified compound. During his captivity, the German official was interviewed by a reporter with a local television channel.
An elderly man in Yemeni clothes, the German appealed to the reporter for his release in broken Arabic, saying he was suffering from cancer. Also in the interview, a masked Mr. Huraiqidan demanded a ransom and threatened to hand the German to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which American intelligence agencies view as one of the group’s most lethal affiliates.
For much of last year, American officials hoped to negotiate for Mr. Burch’s freedom.
A senior tribesman in Marib said negotiations began last year after two visits to the province by American diplomats, including the United States ambassador to Yemen, Matthew H. Tueller. A State Department spokeswoman in Washington declined to comment.
People familiar with his kidnapping said Mr. Burch was moved several times from one heavily guarded compound to another. Any rescue, they said, would have involved a firefight.
One United States official said the C.I.A. played a role in the rescue operation but gave no details. American Special Forces were not involved, a second United States official said. A spokesman for the United Arab Emirates declined to comment.
The raid was a potentially risky gambit for Mr. Trump.
In January 2017, just days into his presidency, Mr. Trump ordered a botched American Special Operations raid in Yemen that led to the death of a member of the Navy SEALs, Chief Petty Officer William Ryan Owens. The dead sailor’s father, Bill Owens, later criticized the operation as “a screw-up from the start that ended badly.”
And in December 2014, an American commando raid failed to rescue the American photojournalist Luke Somers, who was being held hostage by Al Qaeda in southern Yemen. The kidnappers killed Mr. Somers and a South African who was being held with him.
Kidnapping for ransom has for decades been a hazard for foreign visitors to Yemen, where the practice was in many cases just a source of income for criminal or tribal groups. But in the past decade it has become far more dangerous because of the presence of Qaeda and Islamic State groups in the war-torn country.
Army Sgt. Maj. Cale Burch, one of Danny Burch’s children from a previous marriage, said the F.B.I. notified him the day before Trump announced that his father had been freed. Mr. Burch said he spoke on Friday with his father, who was in the emirates.
“He’s doing great,” said Mr. Burch, who was deployed overseas. His father told him that he was not physically abused but suffered a lot of psychological stress.
“I was concerned for his physical safety, but he’s a tough old guy,” the son said. “Our family is really relieved he is safe.”
MADRID — Parties contesting Spain's national election on April 28 are wooing voters with a range of different campaign promises on human rights, immigration and separatism that could well influence the outcome more than social and economic factors.
Following are key promises from each main party, in decreasing order by ratings in opinion polls:
SOCIALIST PARTY OF PRIME MINISTER PEDRO SANCHEZ
* Produce a national pact for gender equality including a law for equal work opportunities. Equal paternity and maternity leave
* Law to regulate euthanasia, currently a criminal offence
* Give autonomous regions more say on state matters, laws
* Promote robust economic growth, reduce inequality while staying the course on deficit and debt reduction
* Increase investment in education to 5 percent of GDP. Focus budget on health, youth housing; boost investment in R&D, the green transition and infrastructure.
* Raise taxes for large companies and high earners. Gradual minimum wage increases, no social security deficit in five years, pension indexation to real inflation
PEOPLE'S PARTY, CONSERVATIVE
* Impose direct central rule in Catalonia to recover constitutional order after a failed independence bid
* Reinforce state presence in all autonomous regions
* Spanish as the teaching language in schools, regional languages optional
* Orderly immigration policy linked to labour market needs
* Reduce income tax ceiling to below 40 percent, company tax below 20 percent, end property and inheritance tax
* Combat gender violence, negotiate protocols to prevent sexual harassment at companies and public administrations
* Life prison sentences for homicide during kidnapping, murders involving gender violence, repeat offence rapists
* Reduce electricity prices, promote recycling
* Protect, promote bullfighting as an important tradition
CIUDADANOS (CITIZENS), CENTRE-RIGHT
* Take a hard line with Catalan separatists. Ensure Spanish is used in school throughout the country.
* Make Spain "the best country for families in the world". Free dental care for under-16s; subsidised adoption of pets.
* Find a fair, common European solution to migration crisis
* Legalize surrogacy arrangements for families 
* Decriminalise euthanasia, if it is done along with a law to provide better palliative care 
* Deny legislative representation to parties with less than 3 percent of votes
* End inheritance tax for working and middle classes. Tax cuts for 6 million families with children. Improve tax situation of self-employed workers. 
UNIDAS PODEMOS (TOGETHER WE CAN), FAR-LEFT ALLIANCE
* Negotiations and referendum to find a solution to the Catalan crisis
* Freedom to die with dignity - a law regulating euthanasia
* Decriminalize marijuana and legalise medical use of the drug
* Bring to justice Franco-era torturers, compensate dictatorship's victims and their families
* Combat gender violence with an annual state budget of 600 million euros, expand LGBT rights
* Increase public investment in research and development
* Tax big fortunes and property holdings, cut VAT
* Ban evictions without a housing alternative
* Guarantee universal access to healthcare, free public universities
VOX, FAR-RIGHT
* Suspend Catalonia's autonomous status
* Shift away from the system of regional autonomies to one government, one parliament for Spain. 
* Repeal the law that bans Franco-era symbols and envisages compensation to dictatorship's victims 
* Ban medical procedures such as gender change and abortion under the public health system
* Repeal the law on gender violence as discriminatory against men
* Pass a law to protect bullfighting
* Build a secure wall around the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla to shut out illegal immigrants. Deport illegal immigrants and those who came legally but committed a crime.
* Shut "fundamentalist" mosques
* End property, inheritance taxes. Increase VAT and cut labour taxes. Reduce the cost of dismissing workers. 
* Fewer public workers, less welfare state, selling public companies. Overhaul the social security and pension systems. Deregulate energy and telecoms industries
OTHER PARTIES
* They may be key for the formation of a coalition government
* Opinion polls see left-wing Catalan separatist party Esquerra Republicana (ERC), which is more open to backing a government led by outgoing Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, doing better than the more hardline, rightwing Junts per Catalunya
* The Basque nationalist PNV could also be a potential ally for Sanchez
* Opinion polls show animalist party PACMA could make its first entry into parliament, with up to two seats. Its platform focuses on banning bullfighting and boosting renewable energies.
 (Reporting by Elena Rodriguez, Sabela Ojea, Andrei Khalip, Belen Carreno; Editing by John Stonestreet and Ingrid Melander)
SAN FRANCISCO — Good Samaritans stopped the attempted kidnapping of a 2-year-old boy by an Australian disc jockey from a busy San Francisco street, police said Tuesday.
Police arrested Roscoe Bradley Holyoake, 34, of Perth, Australia, on Friday.
Australia media reports Holyoake is a popular disc jockey.
The toddler was holding his mother's hand while they walked in the Castro neighborhood when Holyoake snatched the boy, San Francisco police say.
Holyoake ran for about half a block with the mother and several bystanders in pursuit before the bystanders grabbed and held him until police arrived.
Holyoake appeared briefly in court Tuesday and was ordered to return Thursday to enter a plea.
His attorney Steve Olmo told media outside court that Holyoake doesn't have a criminal record and was in San Francisco on business.
Holyoake remained in San Francisco County Jail on $500,000 bail.
___
Information from: San Francisco Chronicle, http://www.sfgate.com
Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, said on Twitter on Thursday that they had finalized the details of their divorce.
Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon stock and all of their ownership of The Washington Post and the Blue Origin space company, Ms. Bezos wrote. Mr. Bezos will also have “sole voting authority” over Ms. Bezos’ Amazon shares, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
After the divorce, Ms. Bezos will own roughly 4 percent of Amazon, a stake that was worth almost $36 billion on Thursday. By keeping 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon shares, or about 12 percent of the company, Mr. Bezos will most likely remain the richest person in the world. His remaining stake in the company was worth almost $108 billion on Thursday. (Bill Gates, the second wealthiest, is worth $102 billion, according to Bloomberg.)
Experts had said that in Washington State, where Amazon is based and where the couple have been raising their four children, Ms. Bezos was entitled to roughly half of their assets. They have other investments and properties across the United States. The details of divorce settlements are not public, and theirs could contain other compensation for Ms. Bezos.
Ms. Bezos wrote on Twitter on Thursday that she was “excited about my own plans,” without providing details. She has historically kept a low profile, focusing on her work as a novelist and on raising the couple’s children.
Amazon declined to comment.
Their divorce filing caps four months of the kind of public drama that Amazon and its founder have long eschewed.
The couple announced their plan to split on Twitter in early January, saying that “after a long period of loving exploration and a trial separation, we have decided to divorce and continue our shared lives as friends.” The news came as a surprise. Just a few months earlier they were spotted in a Miami nightclub celebrating their 25th anniversary.
After the news initially sent Amazon shares down, investors brushed it away, and the price rebounded.
But the relatively quiet disclosure took on new life a day later when The National Enquirer reported that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor. The tabloid published photos of the two together as well as intimate text messages.
Since then, Mr. Bezos and American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, have been embroiled in a public feud.
Mr. Bezos published emails from American Media that he said amounted to “extortion and blackmail.” He said the company had threatened to publish more embarrassing details, including a “below the belt selfie” that he had sent Ms. Sanchez. He insinuated that the leaks could have been politically motivated to harm him because of his ownership of The Washington Post. American Media denied those accusations.
On Saturday, Mr. Bezos’ security consultant wrote an opinion article for The Daily Beast that said his team had “concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information.” He said the Saudis had targeted Mr. Bezos because of the newspaper’s reporting on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who United States officials believe was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince.
Mr. Bezos’ consultant did not provide direct evidence of the accusation, nor did he say whether the Saudis had provided information to The Enquirer.
American Media flatly denied any Saudi involvement. It said that Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, was the “sole source” of its investigation, and that “there was no involvement by any other third party whatsoever.”
A Saudi official also said Saudi Arabia “categorically rejects all allegations” of being involved in the matter.
Despite all the drama, the Bezos divorce moved quickly, did not resort to court and was announced in unison.
“This is an example of how you would want to handle this kind of situation if you were a public figure,” said Jennifer Payseno, a divorce lawyer who works with wealthy families in the Seattle area, where the Bezoses live.
“They are intertwined financially, so anything that helps him succeed helps her and vice versa,” Ms. Payseno said.
After filing for divorce on Thursday, under state law the Bezoses must wait 90 days to submit their divorce decree to a court for approval.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher
A gunman opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, killing at least 50 people. The massacre was partly streamed online. We look at why the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet.
[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]
On today’s episode:
Background reading:
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
DOYLESTOWN, Pa. — A man who rejected a plea deal in the killings of four men found buried on a suburban Philadelphia farm wants prosecutors barred from using statements he made to investigators.
Twenty-two-year-old Sean Kratz is accused of helping his cousin Cosmo DiNardo lure the victims to the farm in 2017, ambush and kill them, burn their bodies and crush one with a backhoe before burial. Prosecutors say the cousins went for cheesesteaks afterward.
DiNardo pleaded guilty to murder in exchange for multiple life sentences, but Kratz rejected an offer calling for a 59- to 118-year sentence.
Defense attorney A. Charles Peruto Jr. argues Kratz didn't fully understand the deal's conditions and his statements shouldn't be used at trial.
A judge Tuesday rejected prosecutors' bid for testimony from Kratz's former attorney.
ATMORE, Ala. — An Alabama inmate convicted in the 1991 sword-and-dagger slaying of a pastor was spared a lethal injection when his death warrant expired before a divided U.S. Supreme Court voted early Friday to let the execution proceed.
A federal judge on Thursday blocked the execution of Christopher Lee Price to weigh his challenge to Alabama's lethal injection procedure. Justices voted 5-4 early Friday morning to let the execution proceed, but the death warrant had expired two hours earlier at the stroke of midnight.
Alabama is expected to seek a new execution date from a state court.
"This evening, the state of Alabama witnessed a miscarriage of justice," Gov. Kay Ivey said in a statement.
Price, 46, had asked to be put to death by breathing nitrogen gas. His lawyers argue that it's a less painful alternative to the lethal combination of drugs that led to "botched" executions in the state.
The high court's order and dissenting opinion underscored the divide between the court's conservative and liberal justices over 11th-hour execution challenges.
"What is at stake in this case is the right of a condemned inmate not to be subjected to cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment," Justice Stephen Breyer wrote in a dissent.
Breyer admonished court conservatives for overruling two lower court stays "in the middle of the night" without discussing it further at a morning conference.
The Supreme Court majority, in vacating the lower court's stay, sided with the state and said Price had waited too late to bring his challenge.
Justices on April 1 voted 5-4 against a Missouri inmate who said lethal injection would cause severe pain because of a tumor in his throat. Justice Neil Gorsuch's said judges should guard against efforts to use challenges to the method of execution "as tools to interpose unjustified delay."
Alabama authorized nitrogen hypoxia in 2018 as an alternative for carrying out death sentences, but has yet to try it and hasn't developed procedures to do so.
When Alabama authorized the new execution method, it gave inmates a 30-day window to request execution by nitrogen and 48 of the more than 170 inmates on death row did so, according to court filings.
Alabama contends that Price missed the deadline to request nitrogen, and that even though nitrogen hypoxia is authorized under state law, it is currently unavailable because the state has been unable to "procure the means for executing someone with nitrogen gas."
The governor and state Attorney General Steve Marshall said they would continue to pursue the death sentence for Price, who was convicted of using a sword and dagger to fatally stab Church of Christ pastor Bill Lynn in 1991 as he prepared Christmas gifts for his grandchildren.
"This horrendous crime left Pastor Lynn's wife and family to grieve, and now, almost 30 years later, the family is still left with no closure," Ivey said.
Prosecutors said Lynn, 57, was at his Fayette County home getting toys ready for his grandchildren when the power was cut. Lynn went outside to check the fuse box when he was killed, according to court filings.
Lynn's wife, Bessie Lynn, testified that she was in an upstairs bedroom watching television when she heard a noise. She said she looked out a window and saw a person dressed in black in a karate stance, holding a sword above her husband's head.
Bessie Lynn said she went outside to help her husband, but two men ordered her back in the house and demanded money and any jewelry and weapons they had. An autopsy showed that Lynn had been cut or stabbed more than 30 times.
A second man, Kelvin Coleman, pleaded guilty to murder and was sentenced to life in prison.
The appeals process made for a tense and lengthy Thursday as the victim's family and the inmate awaited rulings from the courts. His lethal injection had been scheduled for 6 p.m., and Lynn's wife and daughters had planned to witness it, prisons spokesman Samantha Banks said.
On Wednesday, Price married his fiance in the visitation yard of the prison. His final request to hold the wedding ceremony before his execution. He also ordered two pints of turtle tracks ice cream for his final meal.
Facing a ticking clock and an unresolved legal battle to lift the stay, prison officials announced about 30 minutes before midnight that they could not carry out the execution before his death warrant expired.
Alabama has carried out one execution so far this year, executing Dominique Ray in February for the 1995 murder of a 15-year-old girl.
___
Associated Press writer Mark Sherman in Washington contributed to this report.
___
This story has corrected who was convicted of murder to Price and Coleman's first name to Kelvin and corrected that the U.S. Supreme Court had not allowed the execution to proceed.
LOS ANGELES — “Do you know what today is?” asked Patty Jenkins on a rainy Tuesday in January. Chris Pine shook his head.
It was a morbid anniversary: Seventy-two years before, Elizabeth Short, an aspiring actress known later as the Black Dahlia, was brutally murdered and dismembered, possibly in the bowels of the mansion where they sat — the Sowden House, built by Lloyd Wright (a son of Frank’s). It was home briefly to George Hodel, a prominent gynecologist who was widely suspected of the murder.
Mr. Pine was familiar with the story. Fresh off their success with “Wonder Woman,” in which Mr. Pine starred under Ms. Jenkins’s direction, the two of them had filmed a TV project here in 2017 tied to the Black Dahlia murder of 1947.
“I got a little nauseous,” she said about visiting the house’s basement. “And dizzy.”
A dizzying setting, perhaps, but appropriate for the project she was filming, which debuts Monday: “I Am the Night,” a six-episode limited series on TNT starring Mr. Pine that is loosely based on the 2008 memoir “One Day She’ll Darken” by Mr. Hodel’s granddaughter, Fauna Hodel. A noir-soaked mystery set in 1965, the series is a return to TV for Ms. Jenkins and the realization of a passion project over a decade in the making.
Ms. Jenkins first became interested in bringing Ms. Hodel’s story to the screen in 2008 when a mutual friend introduced the two women. “She laid on me the most incredible true story,” Ms. Jenkins said of that first encounter with Ms. Hodel, who went on to become a close friend. “And I was just so completely blown away by it that I couldn’t stop thinking about it and talking about it.”
A white girl raised by her adoptive black mother to believe she was of mixed racial origins, Ms. Hodel had a difficult upbringing in Nevada, unaware of her true background. In search of her biological mother, she traveled to Los Angeles — only then to discover her family’s shadowy past. Vanity Fair later called her memoir “the stuff of which movies are made.”
Ms. Jenkins agreed, originally conceiving of the project as a film — at one point, Oprah Winfrey’s Harpo Productions was attached. But the material proved ultimately too dense for a feature, and the project sat in limbo. The idea of the limited series wasn’t as “chic,” she said, before the success in 2014 of HBO’s “True Detective.”
With the blockbuster success of “Wonder Woman” in 2017, which earned nearly $822 million, Ms. Jenkins’s career reached new heights. “Wonder Woman” gave her leverage, but that achievement also made it somewhat surprising that “Night” landed at a basic-cable network better known for sitcoms and procedurals.
“I don’t see anything as too minor or too major,” said Ms. Jenkins, who followed up her Oscar-winning debut feature, “Monster,” by directing episodes of “Arrested Development” on Fox. “I like to do things I believe could be great. Not only did TNT get it, but they were excited about it.”
The network happily accommodated the short window she had at the end of 2017 to direct the first two episodes. She then handed the directorial reins over to Victoria Mahoney (“Seven Seconds”) and Carl Franklin (“Devil in a Blue Dress”) and left to begin preproduction on “Wonder Woman 1984,” scheduled for release in 2020.
The episodes this team created for “I Am the Night” are heavily fictionalized, though based on Ms. Hodel’s gripping memoir. In the pilot, a teenage version of Ms. Hodel (India Eisley) is presented as a Little Red Riding Hood in search of her grandfather. As all manner of wolves close in, she befriends Mr. Pine’s character, Jay Singletary, a once-promising journalist whose career has been destroyed by George Hodel (Jefferson Mays).
Mr. Pine, who played the love interest in “Wonder Woman,” jumped at the chance to work again with Ms. Jenkins, who first told him about the project on the set of “Wonder Woman” in 2016.
“She always has myriad ideas that she’s bandying about that she’ll see if I respond to,” said Mr. Pine, who has spent nearly half of the past three years working on projects with Ms. Jenkins. “But this particular one she got really excited about.”
Mr. Pine got excited, too. Like Ms. Jenkins, he is an executive producer on the series. And his character, a drug addicted Korean War veteran who’s been reduced to the tabloid hustle, presented new challenges.
“Jay is freakishly, fascinatingly, delightfully strange,” he said. “I have a greater compassion for him than I have for many of the characters I’ve played because he’s so tragic.”
Shot on location around Los Angeles, the series examines issues of identity, corruption and truth, as focused through a noir lens appropriate to its themes. As Fauna tracks her family, she also unearths the suspicions about her grandfather’s possible role in the Dahlia and other murders.
Ms. Jenkins felt that the Black Dahlia mystery — which remains unsolved, possibly because of George Hodel’s powerful connections — was the show’s “Trojan Horse”: The killer’s identity was reportedly one of Hollywood’s best-kept secrets, and it became just one of Fauna’s — both real and fictional — many painful discoveries.
“Nobody can prove exactly what happened to the Black Dahlia, but the people involved with this story uncovered incredible complexities about themselves,” said Ms. Jenkins.
“I Am the Night” is the first proper collaboration between Ms. Jenkins and her husband, the author Sam Sheridan (“A Fighter’s Heart”). It was Mr. Sheridan, a noir fan and the series’s showrunner, who thought to cast Mr. Pine, who had played the comely Captain Kirk in “Star Trek,” as the troubled journalist.
The suggestion appealed to Ms. Jenkins, who saw Jay’s desperation and gallows humor as a refreshing change for her friend.
“This character had shades of Chris that I hadn’t gotten to see him express,” said Ms. Jenkins. “It’s getting into that vibe of somebody who really doesn’t like themselves and their place in the world. When he was super young, he always had to play the handsome leading man.”
Seated together in a small windowless room of the Sowden House, Mr. Pine and Ms. Jenkins exuded unmistakable chemistry. (“You end up with a shorthand,” Ms. Jenkins observed. “That’s why we were able to work so fast.”) He teasingly wondered if the built-in aquarium reminded her of her deceased pet Fishtopher.
“Patty has a relationship to fish that one would have with a dog or a cat,” he joked. She waggled her fingers around her face to illustrate how the Japanese fighting fish used to greet her. They erupted with laughter.
Their tight working relationship was quickly forged on the set of “Wonder Woman.” Ms. Jenkins explained that it had been extremely challenging to cast the part of Wonder Woman’s love interest, Steve Trevor, whom she felt was often neutered in previous, primarily male interpretations.
“Imagine if Lois Lane was dull as dishwater?” she said. “We’re making a movie for women, as well, this time. I was looking for someone hilarious and cool, but who also had a funny dynamic with emasculation, in a way that made it a two-hander.”
Mr. Pine had turned down the “Wonder Woman” role in 2015 when another director was attached. But within five minutes of meeting with Ms. Jenkins, who acted out an abridged version of the film as part of her pitch, he was sold. (He is reprising the role in the sequel.)
“Long story short, I like Patty,” he said. “She sees me the way I want to be seen.”
Ms. Jenkins has become a dependable teller of gruesome tales about women and violence. In addition to “Monster,” based on the life of the serial killer Aileen Wuornos, she also directed the somber pilot for AMC’s whodunit drama “The Killing.” What captivated her most about Ms. Hodel’s story, though, was not its sordid nature, but Ms. Hodel’s resilience and joy.
“I’m a filmmaker because I’m interested in people and what is possible in this world,” she said.
Ms. Hodel, who had breast cancer, did not get to see the project completed: She died in September 2017, having read only the pilot script. Her daughters, however, Rasha Pecoraro and Yvette Gentile, were granted generous access to the set during production.
“It brought mom back to life for us,” said Ms. Gentile.
Their podcast, “Root of Evil,” debuts Feb. 13 and will further explore events from the family’s perspective. The podcast will feature tape-recorded interviews with family members conducted by Ms. Hodel, who continued to search for answers all her life.
Ms. Jenkins said she wanted to believe her friend would have liked the series.
“It’s always the thing I am most nervous about, with anybody’s true story,” she said. “We tried to honor the truth of her character as much as we could. Hopefully her wonderful spirit permeated everything.”
NAIROBI, Kenya — Kenyan officials say Cuban doctors deployed along the border with Somalia are being evacuated following the kidnapping last week of two Cuban doctors.
Suspected Islamic extremists kidnapped two Cuban doctors in Mandera County on Friday as they were heading to work, killing one of their police bodyguards.
Lamu County officer in charge of health Anne Gathoni said Monday that the remaining Cuban doctors had been evacuated from Lamu because they had been traumatized by the kidnapping of their colleagues.
The two, an orthopedic surgeon and a physician, had been deployed to Lamu by the government in July, 2018. Somalia's al-Shabab extremist rebels are suspected of carrying out the kidnapping. The extremist group has vowed retribution against Kenya for sending troops to Somalia to fight the militants.
SPRINGFIELD, Ga. — Five relatives have pleaded not guilty in the deaths of teenage siblings found buried in their father's yard in Georgia.
News outlets report the dead children's father, 50-year-old Elwyn Crocker Sr., their stepmother and three others entered their pleas Wednesday during arraignments in Effingham County Superior Court.
Sheriff's deputies acting on a tip discovered the bodies of Mary and Elwyn Crocker Jr. in December. Authorities say both were 14 when they died roughly two years apart. The children were homeschooled and never reported missing.
Effingham County sheriff's investigator Abby Brown testified last month that Mary was beaten, starved and kept naked in a dog crate. A later indictment said Elwyn Jr. was a victim of similar abuse.
All five relatives are charged with felony murder, child cruelty and other crimes.
___
Information from: Savannah Morning News, http://www.savannahnow.com
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Michael Stewart, known as “Mikey,” spent the twilight hours of Dec. 20 celebrating the holidays at an Irish pub on Staten Island. After leaving, he spotted an old friend from high school, Angelo Nesimi, in a nearby barbershop, and walked inside.
In security camera footage from that evening, Mr. Stewart appeared raucously happy — maybe thrilled about seeing his old friend, maybe just a touch tipsy from his previous stop, maybe both. He slapped Mr. Nesimi’s hand and pulled him into a bear hug.
It looked like a normal reunion between two old friends, except for one significant twist: The next day, prosecutors say, Mr. Stewart was dead and Mr. Nesimi was furiously trying to clean up the crime scene.
Prosecutors in Staten Island on Monday afternoon charged Mr. Nesimi, 33, with the murder of Mr. Stewart and the subsequent attempts to hide his killing, including dumping the body and gutting his own apartment to get rid of evidence.
Prosecutors said the evidence would show Mr. Nesimi stabbed and killed his friend inside the apartment, at 86 Mada Avenue in the West Brighton neighborhood. A part-owner of the building, William Formica, 58, was charged with helping to strip the apartment and dump the debris.
It was a sudden, if long-expected, finale to the five-week hunt for Mr. Stewart, who vanished in the early hours of Dec. 21 after sending a late night text to his mother. In recent days, the police identified Mr. Nesimi as a “person of interest” in the disappearance, which had gradually shifted from a missing-person case to a presumed homicide.
Still, the case is missing two critical components: a body and a motive.
The search for Mr. Stewart’s body has taken investigators all over the tristate area, from New Jersey dumpsters to Pennsylvania landfills. Still, his body has not been found, making the case highly unusual. Prosecutors rarely bring murder charges without a body. Such cases are notoriously difficult to prosecute.
Key to the case were statements from Mr. Nesimi’s ex-girlfriend, who purportedly told prosecutors that her ex-boyfriend was to blame, defense lawyers said.
“These are just the musings of a jilted lover,” said Mario Gallucci, Mr. Nesimi’s lawyer. “They’re basing their whole case on statements of a girlfriend that he had broken up with.”
Family members of Mr. Stewart, who was a father of two, filled a courtroom on Staten Island Monday as the two men were formally charged. Mr. Stewart’s mother, appearing ashen, declined to comment as she left the courtroom.
“He was a good father, a good person,” Stephanie Garcia, the mother of Mr. Stewart’s daughter, said. The girl was crying for her father daily, she added.
How prosecutors think the night of Dec. 20 devolved from a friendly barbershop reunion to a bloody stabbing at Mr. Nesimi’s apartment remains unclear. In a statement, Staten Island district attorney Michael E. McMahon called Mr. Stewart’s murder “senseless and tragic,” but prosecutors offered no motive. Mr. Nesimi was charged with second-degree murder.
Mr. Nesimi has been arrested 14 times since 2001 on charges ranging from assaults to drugs and weapons possession, a law-enforcement official said. He was arrested in December on a weapons charge related to an assault against his then-girlfriend, the same woman who is now speaking with prosecutors in the murder case.
Police officials declined to discuss the investigation, saying they did not want to jeopardize leads they had developed.
According to court filings, Mr. Nesimi spent the week after the murder razing his apartment. He enlisted his landlord, Mr. Formica, to raze the apartment’s refrigerator, carpet, flooring, moldings, sinks, mirrors and towels. The items were dumped at a site owned by Mr. Formica, where his construction company operated.
Prosecutors said lab tests would show that Mr. Stewart’s DNA was present on the debris and on the lining of a truck bed, which the two men had also tried to throw away. The vehicle was later washed and detailed, prosecutors said.
Mr. Formica maintains he had no idea he was covering up a murder, his lawyer, Matthew Santamauro, said.
“He has no knowledge that anything even occurred in that apartment,” Mr. Santamauro said.
Mr. Nesimi, who was already in custody on charges related to the assault on his former girlfriend, was ordered held without bail awaiting trial on the murder charge. A judge set bail for Mr. Formica at $75,000. Along with charges related to Mr. Stewart’s murder, both men were also charged with cocaine possession.
Christopher Slow, a cousin of Mr. Stewart, said his family was reeling from Monday’s developments. “We want to heal right now,” he said. “Put yourself in our shoes. I can’t describe it.”
LOS ANGELES — The great mystery of who stole the Willem de Kooning painting “Woman-Ochre” by cutting the canvas out of its frame at the University of Arizona Museum of Art in 1985 has still not been solved.
But the issue of where the painting has been — and why it’s been out of public view since its 2017 discovery by a New Mexico antiques dealer, has become clearer. It turns out that the work, said to be worth at least $100 million, has been in museum storage for months, awaiting approval from the F.B.I. to send it for restoration.
“The F.B.I. has kept this an open case,” Olivia Miller, the Arizona museum’s curator of exhibitions, explained. “The painting has been at the museum but it was still considered evidence, so it wasn’t allowed to leave until this past November.”
Now, the museum, in Tucson, is staging a coming-out-of-storage cocktail party on Sunday, with the first public viewing of the painting since 1985, before sending it to the Getty Center in Los Angeles in April for conservation. The Getty plans to exhibit the painting during the summer of 2020, after treatment, before returning it to the Arizona institution.
The challenge is bringing the 1955 canvas — an example from de Kooning’s celebrated but also contested “Woman” series, known for their grotesque, even savage renderings of the female nude — back to near-original condition. Ulrich Birkmaier, the Getty Museum’s senior paintings conservator, and Tom Learner, the Getty Conservation Institute’s head of science, have teamed up for the project. They expect the process to take at least a year.
“Unfortunately, the painting suffered considerable damage as a result of the theft,” Mr. Birkmaier said. “In 1985 when the painting was cut out of its frame — actually a very clean cut — the thief ripped it off the lining, which caused a lot of horizontal cracks.”
He believes the cracking was exacerbated by another action the thief allegedly took: rolling up the canvas tight enough to tuck it under a coat.
Mr. Birkmaier described paint “lifting off” from the cracked areas, which will need to be secured, and noted that the original canvas border wrapped around the stretcher was left behind during the theft. “The treatment will most likely involve a relining of the canvas during which it can be reunited” with its border, he said.
“Once the painting is consolidated, cleaned and restretched, there will be endless debates with my team and Arizona about retouching,” Mr. Learner said, adding, “My instinct is that we are going to err toward maintaining the existing condition because that’s where conservation is at the moment.”
The Getty team also plans to analyze the artist’s choice of materials. In her book on de Kooning, Susan Lake, a conservator, showed that starting in the 1940s he worked with glossy house paints as well as artists’ oils. It appears he might have used both in “Woman-Ochre.”
The Getty Museum exhibition will feature the painting and the restoration process. In 2012, the Getty struck a similar agreement with the University of Iowa for Jackson Pollock’s 1943 painting “Mural.”
Ms. Miller, the Arizona curator, said the Getty beat out other teams because of its “cutting-edge science” and commitment to educating the public. “We were looking at the work they did in collaboration with University of Iowa on the Jackson Pollock painting, which produced this incredible research, as a model,” she noted.
Ms. Miller vividly remembers receiving the phone call in August 2017 from David Van Auker, an antiques store owner in Silver City, N.M. He had bought “Woman-Ochre” from the estate of Jerry and Rita Alter, not recognizing it as a de Kooning, let alone as stolen property, until he put it on display and some customers took immediate interest. “He was super calm,” Ms. Miller said. “He introduced himself and said: I bought some items from an estate and I have your stolen de Kooning.”
She did not disclose the insurance value for the painting today, and it’s hard to say how much its damage would dampen a price or its dramatic back story would aid it. An earlier “Woman” painting brought $137.5 million in a private sale.
As for the unveiling on Sunday, Ms. Miller was reluctant to reveal details: “The painting will not be left alone, that’s for sure. We’re hiring extra security.”
SANTA ANA, Calif. — Nearly two months after a federal jury decided that a notorious motorcycle club must forfeit the rights to its trademarked emblem, a judge on Thursday nullified the verdict, finding that seizure of the intellectual property was unconstitutional.
In a 51-page ruling, Federal District Judge David O. Carter said the government’s strategy of trying to devastate the Mongols motorcycle club by confiscating its treasured Genghis Khan-style logo would violate the group’s First Amendment right to free speech and the excessive fines clause of the Eighth Amendment.
The decision upended years of efforts by prosecutors to weaken the Mongols, which a federal jury in January deemed a criminal enterprise after finding the group guilty of racketeering and racketeering conspiracy for the crimes of murder, attempted murder and drug dealing. In the second phase of that wide-ranging, eight-week trial, the jury found that the Mongols must give up their rights to the emblem, which is emblazoned on the vests, T-shirts and motorcycles of hundreds of members.
But Judge Carter declined to order the Mongols to forfeit the logo until he had a chance to review their arguments and consider their free speech rights.
“The Mongol Nation’s and its members’ right to express their identity through the noncommercial display of symbols constitutes speech subject to First Amendment protections,” Judge Carter wrote in the ruling released Thursday. He added that the First Amendment bars the government from using forfeiture laws in racketeering cases “to chill this expression.”
Judge Carter further wrote that since the jury determined that the Mongols logo was forfeitable only on the racketeering conspiracy count, but not racketeering itself, taking away the insignia was an inordinate punishment.
What’s more, Judge Carter wrote, “There is no evidence that forfeiture of collective membership marks will lead to a less violent or capable organization.”
[Read: How to Crush an Outlaw Biker Club: Seize Its … Logo?]
The Mongols, who feared that losing the rights to their logo — a brawny Genghis Khan-like man sporting a queue and sunglasses and riding a chopper while brandishing a sword — would have severe consequences, hailed the ruling as not just a victory for the group, but for other biker clubs that law enforcement authorities have tried to take down.
“The Mongols MC is ecstatic that they could successfully defend the First Amendment for themselves and all motorcycle clubs,” the club’s general counsel, Stephen Stubbs, said. “Today, Judge Carter stood strong against the United States government’s attempt to ban symbolic speech in an epic win for all Americans.”
Judge Carter’s ruling was a severe setback for California prosecutors who spent more than a decade going after the Mongols patch.
A spokesman for the United States attorney’s office for the Central District of California, Thom Mrozek, said in a statement that prosecutors were disappointed by the decision and that they believed Judge Carter was required by law to issue the forfeiture order that the government had requested. He said the office was considering an appeal.
“While affirming the jury’s guilty verdicts on racketeering charges, the court’s ruling nullifies the jury’s finding that these marks are a core component of the Mongols’ decades-long pattern of murder, assault and drug trafficking,” Mr. Mrozek said.
The roots of the government’s case date to 2005 when four undercover agents for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives managed to become full members of the Mongols.
The result was a jarring blow to the club. In October 2008, a grand jury returned an 86-count federal racketeering indictment against 79 Mongols, accused of crimes ranging from murder to drug trafficking to money laundering. Except for one defendant who died in custody and another who was deemed incompetent, all others eventually pleaded guilty.
Donald Charles Davis, who writes the biker blog “The Aging Rebel,” said that he felt Judge Carter’s ruling was “inevitable.”
“The government’s ambition was blatantly unconstitutional,” Mr. Davis said. “The government sought to turn symbols like the Mongols insignia, the club’s name and sentiments associated with the club like ‘Support The Mongols,’ into contraband.”
Judge Carter’s ruling was drawn from a flood of legal opinions that were submitted by academics, law firms and think tanks. He upheld the Mongols’ convictions on racketeering and racketeering conspiracy, and tentatively granted the forfeiture of the various weapons and property that had been seized.
Despite certain members of the club wearing the symbols “while committing violent crimes” or being “rewarded with other patches for the commission of crimes” that did not justify the forfeiture of the logo, Judge Carter wrote.
David Santillan, the national president of the Mongols, pumped his fist into the air as the decision was read before a courtroom audience that included several Mongols members.
“He upheld our constitutional rights, not only as the Mongols motorcycle club, but as citizens,” Mr. Santillan said. “A big weight has been lifted off the club’s shoulders.”
YANGON, Myanmar — Myanmar state media report three people were killed and seven civilians abducted in an attack on a police installation that authorities blame on the Arakan Army rebel group.
A report in the Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper says about 200 insurgents, who claim to represent the Rakhine ethnic minority in the western state of Rakhine, attacked a security police headquarters in Mrauk-U town on Tuesday night.
Rakhine is best known for a brutal counterinsurgency campaign by the military against the Muslim Rohingya minority, which caused more than 700,000 to flee to neighboring Bangladesh.
Thursday's report says the attackers abducted four women and three children and that one officer's family member was killed, while two policemen died and seven were reported missing.
To the Editor:
Re “How Sexism Plays Out on the Campaign Trail” (front page, Feb. 12):
The notion that voters’ preference for “likable” women reinforces gender biases overlooks a whole lot of presidential history. For instance, Reagan (nice guy — wins) was more likable than Mondale (wonk — lost). Bush #2 (a guy to have a beer with) was more likable than Kerry (dull — lost).
Likability has clearly has been a factor in several past elections. So the issue is not one of sexism, as the article suggests.
In addition, the article ignores the fact that Hillary Clinton, the “unlikable” female candidate, actually won the popular vote, getting more votes than the man. Maybe some biases aren’t gender-based after all.
Gerry RingOld Bethpage, N.Y. 
To the Editor:
According to research cited in your article, male political candidates who defy gender stereotypes are not penalized, unlike women candidates who emphasize stereotypically masculine qualities. Not true. 
Look at the failed 1972 presidential campaign of Senator Edmund S. Muskie, who displayed his emotional side (some observers said he shed tears at a news conference) defending his wife from charges by a conservative New Hampshire newspaper publisher that she was “unladylike” — a gender-bender double whammy! Wags questioned if Mr. Muskie had the strength to serve as the nation’s commander in chief. Eventually, he dropped out of the race.
And Michael Dukakis may have lost support during his 1988 presidential race against George H.W. Bush because he was considered weak in his response to a debate question about whether he would support the death penalty if his wife were raped and murdered.
Pender M. McCarterWashington
To the Editor:
People have many reasons they are for or against a candidate. Gender is just one of that huge array.
If women want to be equal, it is time they stop claiming that anything negative that happens is because of sexism. If they stop acting so overly accusatory and overly sensitive, they will learn that being criticized is part of life, no matter your gender.
Frayda LevinMountain Lakes, N.J.
To the Editor:
Please take a look in the mirror when asking about why there is sexism. When focusing on these candidates’ gender on the front page, you only underscore and validate the concerns of those who question a woman’s suitability for elected office. If there’s anything our current president has taught us, it’s that repeating words often enough tends to make an idea concrete — whether or not it is true or even has any basis in reality.
Give us information about the candidates that is useful as we make choices at the polls, such as where they stand on issues and their experience. Leave the rhetoric, hand-wringing and spinning to the pundits.
Ellen B. ClarkGlenview, Ill.
LOS ANGELES — Former U.S. President Barack Obama praised the legacy of slain Los Angeles rapper Nipsey Hussle on Thursday in a letter read during a public memorial attended by thousands of fans, many of them dressed in white.
Obama's letter to the family was read by Karen Civil, Hussle's friend and business partner, on a stage filled with white, pink and blue flowers. The former president praised Hussle's attempts to revitalize the gang-plagued neighborhood where he was raised, and where he was gunned down last month.
"While most folks look at the Crenshaw neighborhood where he grew up and see only gangs, bullets and despair, Nipsey saw potential. He saw hope," Obama's letter said.
"To build a skills-training center and a co-working space in Crenshaw; to lift up the Eritrean-American community; to set an example for young people to follow -- is a legacy worthy of celebration," he added.
The 21,000-capacity Staples Center, a sports and pop concert venue, was packed for the two-hour memorial, to be followed by a 25-mile procession through the streets of south Los Angeles. 
Frank Sinatra's song "My Way" played over a photo montage of the 33 year-old singer's life. Hussle's two year-old son, dressed in a blue suit, was brought on stage in the arms of the musician's girlfriend, model Lauren London.
Stevie Wonder was expected to perform and California rapper Snoop Dogg was among friends, ministers and family members scheduled to speak.
Security was tight because of Hussle's former gang connections. Last week, a stampede erupted at a local vigil for Hussle after reports of a gunman in the crowd.
Hussle, who had parlayed his fame into a role as a community organizer and activist combating gang violence, was shot on March 31 outside a clothing store he owned in south Los Angeles.
"He lived the gang life but he didn't stay there. He lived the life of the 'hood but he rose above the pull of gravity," Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan said in a speech.
Farrakhan said Hussle has become "to hip hop and rap what Bob Marley was to reggae."
Los Angeles police last week arrested a 29-year-old man who has pleaded not guilty to murder charges. Police said the shooting was motivated by a personal dispute, although it took place against a surge in gang-related violence in south Los Angeles.
Hussle, whose real name was Ermias Asghedom, was Grammy-nominated earlier this year for his debut studio album "Victory Lap."
 (Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Richard Chang and David Gregorio)
GORDON, Wis. — Neighbors watch one another’s homes in the winter around here. They notice when there are unfamiliar tire tracks in the snow. Most of the 34 graduates of Northwood High School’s Class of 2015 keep in touch through text message.
Gordon is a tiny place, with a single convenience store, and until last week, a single resident who appeared to elude public notice despite nearly a lifetime of living here.
Overnight, Jake T. Patterson has gone from local anonymity to national infamy, accused of kidnapping a 13-year-old girl about an hour’s drive south, killing her parents and then holding the teenager captive for nearly three months. The awful crime has shattered the town’s sense of safety and forced painful questions on the 645 residents.
“In a little town where everyone knows everyone’s business, how could we not know that’s who he was?” said Shawn Germann, a FedEx driver, during a stop at The Buckhorn Bar and Grill in Gordon. “You always see these other towns, and think, ‘Thank God I don’t live in a town like that.’ Now, evidently, I do.”
[Read: Jayme Closs, Kidnapped by a Stranger, Endured Horror, Police Say]
As chilling details about the abduction of the girl, Jayme Closs, continue to surface, and as cable television trucks cruise the pine-lined, snowy streets of Gordon, residents have wondered how Mr. Patterson, who had bounced between jobs in recent years, evaded notice.
Mr. Patterson, 21, hid in plain sight for 88 days as scores of detectives fanned out across northern Wisconsin and as Jayme’s photo circulated on missing person posters and Facebook pages. He was arrested last week after Jayme escaped from under a twin-size bed inside his home, and was charged with her kidnapping and the shooting deaths of her parents, James and Denise Closs.
On Thursday, former classmates said the accusations against Mr. Patterson — who was voted “most quiet” at Northwood High School and competed on the quiz team — felt like a punch to the gut.
“He was quiet, for sure, but not any out-of-the-ordinary quiet like something that would alarm somebody,” said one former classmate, who declined to be named out of fear of being ostracized in Gordon, where some residents believe speaking about Mr. Patterson is a betrayal of the town. In a photo given to The New York Times, Mr. Patterson sits in a corner, alone and behind his smiling, posing classmates, absorbed with his laptop.
One of his former teachers, in a text message to a handful of Mr. Patterson’s classmates, said the man accused of the kidnapping and killings was “not the quiet, smiley, bookish boy in the classroom” she knew. “As the days pass and more news trickles out, I’ll still hold the memory of that sweet boy in my heart. His future will look very different than yours.”
[Read more about how Jayme’s disappearance shook her hometown.]
Since graduation, Mr. Patterson had struggled to hold down a job.
He worked for one day at the Jennie-O Turkey Store in Barron, where Jayme’s parents also worked. He spent two days last fall at a cheese factory. A few years before, the United States Marine Corps sent him home after five weeks of boot camp.
“Patterson’s premature discharge is indicative of the fact that the character of his service was incongruent with Marine Corps’ expectations and standards,” said Yvonne Carlock, a spokeswoman for the Marines, in a statement.
Details of his most recent years were scarce.
Neighbors said Mr. Patterson spent much of his time alone in his home, particularly after his father moved out a few years ago. Efforts to reach his father and other relatives were not successful. In interviews with other news organizations, his mother was described as devastated and one of his grandfathers said the family was heartbroken.
In a 12-page criminal complaint filed Monday, prosecutors said Mr. Patterson laid out in gruesome detail how he stormed into the Closs home on Oct. 15, killed the parents and kidnapped Jayme. He has not yet entered a plea.
Mr. Patterson told investigators that he spotted Jayme boarding a school bus outside her home in Barron, about an hour’s drive south of Gordon, and started plotting the crime, purchasing a mask at Walmart and stealing a shotgun from his father. “The defendant stated he put quite a bit of thought into the details of how he was going to abduct” Jayme, prosecutors wrote.
Detectives said Mr. Patterson described modifying his beat-up car, swapping out the license plate so he could not be tracked and removing a device from the trunk so that it could not be opened from the inside. He shaved his head and face to avoid leaving any forensic evidence. And, they said, he described killing Mr. and Mrs. Closs with single blasts of the shotgun, lest any witnesses track him down, then binding Jayme with black tape and placing her in the trunk of his red Ford Taurus.
“The defendant stated he then got in his car, removed his mask and started to drive” with the shotgun on the front seat, prosecutors wrote. About 20 seconds later, he slowed down for three police cars racing toward the Closs home.
Ron Kofal, a lifelong Gordon resident who lives about a mile from the cabin where Jayme was held, said he met Mr. Patterson at the ICO gas station on Highway 53. He said Mr. Patterson, whom he described as “clean cut and shy,” sometimes performed odd jobs around town, like yard work and cabin maintenance, and had seemed pleasant in his interactions with him.
The town of Gordon is dotted with small cabins that sit at the end of wooded roads. All-terrain vehicles and snowmobile trails snake through the forest. Residents, especially the hearty few who stay through the harsh winters, take pride in being on a first-name basis with neighbors.
But in recent days, at snowmobile club meetings and at bars where prize bucks are mounted on the walls, residents have asked themselves uneasy questions: How did they fail to notice the horror in their small town? And how had Mr. Patterson, the tall young man with the receding brown hair, managed to live there so long without raising alarm?
“Everyone else is outside having a bonfire and splitting wood, and playing with their kids,” said Adam Wilson, a manager of a grocery store who lives near Mr. Patterson. “It’s disturbing; it shows you just never know what somebody’s up to.”
In the weeks that followed Jayme’s disappearance, as it vexed detectives and made national headlines, Mr. Patterson described how he used the seclusion of Gordon to his advantage, keeping Jayme out of sight at the cabin where he grew up, just off County Highway Y. When he ran errands, Jayme told detectives, he would force her to stay under the bed, boxing her in with totes secured with barbell weights. When he had houseguests, he would turn on music in the bedroom to muffle any noise she might make.
For a time, Mr. Patterson kept the shotgun at the ready in case the police showed up.
Eventually, he put it away. No one suspected him.
KAMPALA — An American tourist and her guide who were abducted in Uganda last week were released after a "negotiated settlement" was reached with the kidnappers, the firm that organized her safari told Reuters on Monday.
Amid fears the incident could deter tourists from visiting the East African country, U.S. President Donald Trump called on Twitter for the kidnappers to be found.
Ugandan authorities said on Sunday that Kimberley Sue Endecott, 35, and her driver, Jean Paul, had been rescued unharmed after being seized by gunmen in Queen Elizabeth National Park, near the border with Democratic Republic of Congo, on April 2. The kidnappers later demanded a ransom of $500,000 for Endecott's release. 
The acknowledgement of negotiations with the captors follows reports in several local media outlets, including state-owned daily New Vision, that a ransom was paid before the two were freed. 
"A negotiated settlement was arranged with the assistance of the American government," a spokesman for the tour firm, Wild Frontiers Safaris Uganda, told Reuters. "I don't have details of the final settlement"
New Vision reported on Monday, citing undisclosed sources, that a ransom of $30,000 had been paid. 
In Washington, a State Department official said the United States maintains a "no concessions" policy that covers ransoms for Americans taken captive.
"We firmly believe that making concessions increases the risks for Americans and others traveling abroad," the official said, adding that the United States had worked closely with Ugandan authorities for the release of Endecott. "We cannot get into the details of this case, but can confirm that we worked closely with our Ugandan counterparts," the official added.
Uganda Police spokeswoman Polly Namaye said she could not confirm whether a ransom had been paid. 
It remains unclear who was responsible for the abduction, which took place in an area once roamed by fighters belonging to the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), an anti-Kampala rebel group that is now mostly dormant. The group is still believed to have camps in eastern Congo.
"Uganda must find the kidnappers of the American Tourist and guide before people will feel safe in going there," Trump tweeted on Monday. "Bring them to justice openly and quickly!"
Tourism is a key source of foreign exchange for Uganda and there are concerns the incident might raise safety fears and discourage visitors. 
In a tweet on Monday, President Yoweri Museveni promised to "deal with these isolated pockets of criminals."
"I want to reassure the country and our tourists that Uganda is safe and we shall continue to improve the security in our parks. Come and enjoy the Pearl of Africa," he wrote.
The last attack on tourists in a Ugandan park was in 1999. An American couple, four Britons and two New Zealanders were killed along with four Ugandan guides after being ambushed by gunmen in the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, a few kilometers south of the Queen Elizabeth park. 
Queen Elizabeth National Park is one of most visited in the East African country, with tourists flocking there to see lions, hippos, crocodiles and various types of antelope.
 (Reporting by Elias Biryabarema; Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton in Washington; Editing by Catherine Evans and Leslie Adler)
According to this year’s National Intelligence Worldwide Threat Assessment and Senate testimony by top-ranked intelligence officials, Americans can expect Vladimir Putin’s Russia to continue its efforts to aggravate social, political and racial tensions in the United States and among its allies. 
So, to best prepare for future Russian assaults, we should look to the past and study the mind-set of the Cold War K.G.B. — the intelligence service in which President Putin spent his formative years. The history of the brutal Soviet security services lays bare the roots of Russia’s current use of political arrests, subversion, disinformation, assassination, espionage and the weaponization of lies. None of those tactics is new to the Kremlin.
In fact, those tactics made Soviet Russia the world’s first “intelligence state,” and they also distinguished it from authoritarian states run by militaries. Today’s Russia has become even more of an intelligence state after Mr. Putin’s almost 20-year tenure as its strongman. In the U.S.S.R., the party ruled. It was only after the rise in the 1980s of Yuri Andropov — Mr. Putin’s role model and mentor — that the K.G.B. became the state’s most important institution. Then, a decade after the Soviet Union fell, Mr. Putin rose to power and recruited many of his former K.G.B. colleagues to help rebuild the state. The result is a regime with the policies and philosophy of a supercharged secret police service, a regime that relies on intelligence operations to deal with foreign policy challenges and maintain control at home. 
Mr. Putin and his cronies had thrived in an empire where the K.G.B. was the sword and shield of the state, so they regularly return to their tried-and-true weapons when dealing with 21st-century problems. The intelligence services have even been used to covertly drug Russia’s Olympic and Paralympic athletes — the mark of an ultimate “intelligence state.” 
How did this start? After the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, Vladimir Lenin established a secret police service called the Cheka to be his main weapon of repression and terror. Under Felix Dzerzhinsky, a ruthless revolutionary, the Cheka was tasked with keeping the leadership in power at all costs. It served as judge, jury and executioner for the state, using sabotage, censorship, repression and murder to keep the population in line and external enemies at bay.
As Dzerzhinsky remarked, “We stand for organized terror,” and “the Cheka is obliged to defend the revolution and conquer the enemy even if its sword does by chance sometimes fall upon the heads of the innocent.”
During Dzerzhinsky’s time, monarchists, socialists, White Russians and outsiders all conspired to overthrow Lenin and the Bolshevik government. The main underground resistance bringing these forces together was the Monarchist Union of Central Russia, which operated secretly throughout Europe and inside the Soviet Union. 
But unbeknown to those in that organization, it was a trap — a full-fledged honey pot created by the Cheka to draw in enemies of the Soviet Union so they could be identified, neutralized and killed. This fledgling secret police service hoodwinked the established intelligence services of Europe, and in so doing showed its guile, patience and cruelty. Britain’s “Ace of Spies,” Sidney Reilly, who became Ian Fleming’s model for James Bond, was just the most famous individual to be lured to the Soviet Union, interrogated and executed. Misplaced trust became a model for a century of Soviet and Russian subversive efforts, and the Cheka remained a source of pride for future Russian intelligence operatives. Indeed, Russian intelligence officers — including Mr. Putin — still celebrate Chekist Day every Dec. 20.
Over the decades, the Soviet and Russian secret services developed tools and habits based on their Chekist experience that set them apart from their counterparts in the West. Rather than focusing on collecting and analyzing intelligence, they developed expertise in propaganda, agitation, subversion, repression, deception and murder.
Indeed, the first senior defector from the new Bolshevik state, Boris Bajanov, fled to British India in 1928 with assassins on his tail. Bajanov, Stalin’s personal secretary, reported that the Kremlin’s primary foreign policy was to use covert means to weaken its enemies from within, so that if war came, it would be easier to win.
The Cheka and its successors sowed chaos abroad with propaganda, disinformation and sabotage while managing mass arrests and gulags at home. Bajanov added that Soviet cultural and diplomatic institutions were simply cover mechanisms meant to hoodwink Western intellectuals, foment commercial and political unrest and undermine democracies from within. In other words, their purpose was to throw dust in the eyes of educated people in the West. Over the years, defector after defector came to the West with the same story.
Indeed, the Kremlin deployed an army of spies and recruited informants around the world to steal secrets, spread disinformation and support terrorists and rogue regimes. The security services built their hybrid warfare on a form of deception called “reflexive control” — an effort to manage the perceptions of adversaries so they would be fooled into acting against their own interests. The method included distracting, exhausting and confusing opponents in order to ultimately control their animating narrative. “Operation Infektion” was one such worldwide disinformation effort. Its goal was to spread the story that the virus that caused AIDS was a weapon the Pentagon had designed to destroy developing countries. The Russian operation to influence the 2016 American presidential election was a more recent example. 
Assassination, too, is nothing new. When he arrived in the West, Bajanov explained that the Soviet leadership would send assassins to kill anyone who knew the true nature of the Kremlin’s inner workings. This practice has continued. The unsuccessful 2018 Russian attempt to murder Sergei Skripal in Britain is almost indistinguishable from the Cold War K.G.B. assassination of the Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera in 1959. Assassins covertly tracked Bandera to his Munich address and used a K.G.B.-manufactured gun that sprayed poison to make Bandera’s death appear to have been a heart attack. It was only a K.G.B. assassin’s eventual defection years later that revealed the truth.
As the United States seeks to engage Russia, it must realize that the Kremlin tiger will not change its stripes. Russia’s efforts to forcefully defend itself stem from a profound sense of insecurity, bred from centuries of invasions and breakdowns of the state. Few countries have suffered more. So a central element of Russia’s statecraft since the days of the czars has been deceiving and weakening its enemies from within. In that sense, Russia’s well-sharpened tools of political tradecraft are explainable and logical, even though condemnable.
Western unity is our best defense. Mr. Putin seems to know he cannot compete with the West on a level playing field. He wields his Chekist fog machine to bewilder, confuse and paralyze his enemies because it is all he has. And as long as our politics are tribal, and Americans see domestic political opponents as the real enemy, the Kremlin’s efforts to leverage and exploit our weaknesses will continue.
We should avoid threatening Russia’s sovereignty and instead work with our allies to defend ourselves vigorously and in unison from cyber, physical and hybrid attacks, and push back when threatened. 
This being the case, President Trump’s anti-European sentiments are surely his greatest gift to President Putin.
GOOD KIDS, BAD CITY A Story of Race and Wrongful Conviction in America By Kyle Swenson
Journalists fortunate enough to have started their careers at small-town newspapers or on city desks at metro dailies know about the jailhouse mail. The envelopes arrive every so often, packed almost to rupture with handwritten letters and supporting documentation meant to provoke the recipient into investigating the sender’s agitated claim of innocence. One of my own regrets as a reporter is not having done more with the letters I got — because you never know.
Kyle Swenson got some of those letters while on staff early this decade at The Cleveland Scene, the city’s alternative weekly. And he also got a phone call. Not from a man in prison, but from a man named Kwame Ajamu, who had been released on parole in 2003 after serving 28 years for a 1975 murder he said he had nothing to do with. Looking back, Swenson conjectures that one reason he took Ajamu’s claims as seriously as he did was that Ajamu was so committed to press his case despite having already gotten out. He wanted his name cleared — and most of all, he wanted to free his brother and friend, who were still behind bars for the same murder.
Swenson, a product of the Cleveland suburbs and not long out of college, decided to dig in. His resulting article, published in June 2011, would represent a major step on the path to vindication for the men. Three years later, they would make the history books for an ambiguous honor: With a combined 106 years in prison, theirs was most likely the longest wrongful imprisonment to end in an exoneration in the history of the United States.
This is the story Swenson sets out to recount in his book, though he makes plain early on that it is not the only story he is going to tell. Tales of exoneration after wrongful imprisonment face some fundamental narrative challenges. For one thing, the outcome is already known: long-overdue vindication. For another thing, these accounts present a dramatic situation that is almost too vast to conceive of — the nightmare of spending a decade or two or three locked away for a crime you didn’t commit — while at the same time often fairly pedestrian and limited in its legal particulars. It’s the sort of story that is both too big for a book, and not big enough. To address the latter problem, Swenson has paired his account of what happened to these three men with the story of the city in which they were arrested and convicted.
Their fate, Swenson suggests, is tied up with the fate of Cleveland, which, when they were born in the 1950s, was still one of the 10 biggest cities in the country, but by the time they were charged in 1975 was in sharp decline, a product of white flight, de-industrialization and disinvestment. He links the men’s wrongful imprisonment to a litany of ongoing institutional failures in the city, among them neglecting to apprehend a serial killer who, undetected for years, hid 11 women’s bodies at his home in an impoverished East Side neighborhood; the devastation wreaked over the last decade by subprime lenders; and a sweeping corruption racket in the government of Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland. “If we’d hit the point where we no longer expected our police officers to stop serial killers before body counts reached the double digits … if whole neighborhoods could disappear now under fine-print mortgages while the county government simply watched a tax base drain away,” he writes, “was it so hard then to believe the criminal justice system could put the wrong men in jail for a murder?”
The answer to that rhetorical question is of course no, but the details of how the system got this one wrong still manage to shock. On May 19, 1975, a white 58-year-old money-order salesman by the name of Harry Franks was making his rounds collecting cash when two young men confronted him outside a convenience store, hit him with a metal pipe, tossed acid in his face and tried to grab his briefcase full of money. One of the robbers pulled a gun and shot Franks, killing him, while wounding a woman inside the store.
In the ensuing days, the police would get tips about several possible suspects. But they took the word of 12-year-old Edward Vernon, who had been in the crowd of kids that gathered around the crime scene and, when an officer came over to inquire for witnesses, eagerly volunteered himself. He later identified Rickey Jackson, 18, as the shooter and Ronnie Bridgeman, 17 (who later changed his name to Kwame Ajamu), as the co-assailant; the police alleged that Wiley Bridgeman, 20, Ronnie’s brother, had driven the getaway car. The ensuing trials of the defendants, who like Vernon were African-American, were riddled with red flags: A teenage girl who was inside the store insisted that the attackers were not Rickey and Ronnie; inconsistencies proliferated in the accounts Ed gave the police and the various juries; testimony by other children that Ed had not left school early that day on a city bus, a crucial element of his account. One boy testified that when he asked Ed on the day of the murder how he could have seen the killer when the other kids he was with had not, Ed said, “I have got X-ray eyes.” Nonetheless, juries voted to convict all three.
Swenson does his best to conjure the unimaginable years that follow, as the men are dispersed across the Ohio prison system. Rickey witnesses three murders and a gang rape. Wiley is diagnosed with depression and schizophrenia and spends nearly half his time in mental health units.
Also suffering, though, was Ed Vernon, whose life spins into a spiral of crack addiction. He spends two years behind bars on a drug charge. Later, he encounters Wiley, out on parole before being returned to prison for a parole violation, and rebuffs his pleas to come clean about the case. The break finally comes when a local pastor manages to confront Vernon about his decades-old lies, which dissolve in a sudden upsurge of self-liberating honesty.
It is only now, when the truth pours out of Vernon, that the context of the lies becomes known: the pressure that detectives were putting on him to deliver on his claim to having witnessed the killing, going so far as to threaten him with perjury charges. The role of these officers was so crucial that one is left wanting to know more about them. Swenson sketches the rise of tough-on-crime policing in the 1970s that formed the backdrop of the officers’ actions, but they are individuals, like Vernon and the defendants, whose motives and moral agency could have used more expansive treatment. Swenson’s account of the War on Crime context also elides the role that was played by demands from within the black community to take on drug dealers.
Another shortcoming is one of excess, not absence. Swenson has a predilection for figurative language that occasionally hits the lyrical mark but more often distracts. Just in the book’s first two paragraphs one encounters “roadways split like bad fruit,” “a bent elbow of sidewalk” and “drivers slinging past us like pinballs,” among several other metaphor- and simile-laden sentences.
It’s almost as if Swenson doesn’t entirely trust his material to carry a book without his stylistic embellishment. But it does. It’s the story of a grave injustice, whose long-overdue correction delivers a strong emotional punch when it finally arrives. More broadly, it’s a story about negligence, about all the ways in which residents of cities such as Cleveland have been left abandoned by government and society at large.
There’s so much talk these days about the great urban rebirth that the persistent struggles of non-superstar cities are too often overlooked. Swenson does a service simply by capturing the daily demoralization of existence in such a place: “It was hard to tally the net effect all this institutional calamity had on your average Clevelander,” he writes. “When the basics of your city — catching killers or putting diplomas in kids’ hands or stabilizing a tax base — don’t work anymore, there’s a feeling of being edged out of the American mainstream.”
A big part of that abandonment involves the media: The plight of these cities is increasingly at risk of being ignored because there are so few reporters left to document it. Swenson is now at The Washington Post. Cleveland is lucky to still have The Scene — many other cities have lost their alt-weeklies — but the city’s daily paper, The Plain Dealer, has been debilitated by cutbacks. One can’t help wondering what life-shattering injustices might go unaddressed in the future for lack of a curious reporter to take a call or open an envelope.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The detectives and police officers who rushed to a T-Mobile store in Queens on Tuesday night were responding to one of the most fraught scenarios in policing: A robbery inside had turned into a hostage situation.
Shortly after the officers arrived, the robber is said to have raised his gun — which turned out to be a fake — and made motions as if he were shooting. Seven officers opened fire. A detective was killed and a sergeant wounded in the crossfire.
The tragic event was in every respect unpredictable, except for one: the location. Over the last decade, cellphone stores have joined banks, bodegas, liquor stores and jewelry shops as common robbery targets.
The high price that top-of-the-line cellphones fetch on the black market, both abroad and in the United States, makes the stores attractive to thieves.
“You do the math,” the chief of detectives of the New York Police Department, Dermot Shea, said. “You hit a store and steal 75 of those.” Even if robbery crews were able to unload them for only 25 percent of their store price, he said, “It’s a good hit.”
Banks use dye packs to deter robbers. Jewelers and shop owners have on occasion been known to shoot first. But cellphone stores tend to have little security and lots of valuable inventory.
“These businesses are easy targets,” John B. Devito, the special agent in charge of the New York field division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said in a statement.
The bureau operates a robbery task force with New York City detectives that has seen its case load shift in recent years toward cellphone store robberies.
Last year, there were 71 robberies of cellphone stores in New York City, Chief Shea said. It was not immediately clear how that compared to past years.
The robbers often, though not always, belong to organized crews that in some cases have been known to hit a different location every week or so. Last year investigators determined that there were 19 separate patterns, each one typically involving a different crew.
“When we see one you can almost set the clock because we’re going to start getting others till we catch them,” Chief Shea said.
Christopher Ransom, the 27-year-old accused robber shot inside the T-Mobile store on Tuesday, was also being sought for a series of phone store robberies going back to October, the police said. The most recent happened on Jan. 19 when, the police said, Mr. Ransom brandished what appeared to be a gun and stole several cellphones and about $850 from a RSK3 Wireless shop in South Jamaica, Queens.
The police said Mr. Ransom had an accomplice in the T-Mobile store robbery who arrived with him in a cab and waited outside the store while he went inside. That person was being sought for questioning on Friday, the police said.
Mr. Ransom, who was still recovering in a hospital, was arraigned on murder, assault and robbery charges on Friday afternoon via a closed-circuit video link to state Supreme Court in Queens, the district attorney’s office said. A judge ordered him held without bail. A criminal complaint said he had demanded employees open a safe full of iPhones just before the police arrived.
Mr. Ransom is not alone in being suspected of hitting several stores. Late last year prosecutors accused one man, Khalif Watson, of a particularly prolific robbery spree. He was accused of robbing phone stores in Brooklyn and Queens on five days in late March and early April.
In most of those robberies, investigators said, Mr. Watson brought along a laundry bag to use to carry off his haul. Mr. Watson has since pleaded guilty to racketeering charges that include not only robbery charges, but accusations of murder.
In some cases, investigators believe the phones are sold to fences who ship them overseas for resale. “We know they get shipped — it could be to China, it could be to the Middle East — we see them go to many countries,” Chief Shea said.
But the majority of the phones stay in New York City, according to a Police Department analysis.
Chief Shea characterized the robbers in a typical crew as “stickup guys who know each other, either they served time together or know each other from the neighborhood.”
Court records offer a glimpse of some of the men arrested in recent years for the crime.
One, Ronald Mack, was an emergency medical technician for the city Fire Department who had once stolen credit card information from a patient in his ambulance before he was charged with robbing a cellphone store.
Another, Ayoub Mankouche, who told the police that he used to smoke nine marijuana cigarettes a day, used a black pellet gun to rob a Brooklyn T-Mobile store in September 2016, according to court records. Mr. Mankouche forced employees and customers into a back room, but a customer managed to disarm him during a struggle.
“The defendant gambled that the store was a soft target,” prosecutors wrote in a brief in Mr. Mankouche’s case. “He was wrong.”
There are signs that cellphone companies or retailers are beginning to do more to stop robberies. For example, a box containing a cellphone taken from a Verizon store in Queens during a robbery last April also held a tracking device.
Detective William J. Puskas, who is on the federal robbery task force, said in an affidavit that officers were able to track the stolen phone to a car, which eventually led to an arrest.
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
Last August, I was struck by a news article reporting that a historical marker near Glendora, Miss., honoring Emmett Till had repeatedly been vandalized. Erected in 2007 at the spot on the Tallahatchie River where the 14-year-old Emmett’s body was recovered after his brutal lynching in the summer of 1955, it was first replaced in 2008, after someone tore it down. Then, over several years, more than 100 rounds of bullets were fired into it. In June 2018, it was replaced a second time — and by July it had been marred by bullets yet again.
Thinking about the juxtaposition of the vandalism with the historical significance of Emmett’s murder — which shook America and profoundly shaped the civil rights movement, spurring Rosa Parks to refuse to give up her seat on a bus in Montgomery, Ala., three months later — I became interested in how the local community felt about Emmett Till and how he was remembered in the Mississippi Delta region.
As a video journalist on The Times’s Immersive desk, I am constantly looking for new ways to tell deeply reported stories through the emerging mediums of VR (virtual reality) and AR (augmented reality). So I teamed up with Lauretta Charlton, The Times’s Race/Related editor, and Audra D.S. Burch, a national enterprise correspondent, to explore the issue of cultural reckoning over public memory. We soon learned that in recent years local Delta residents had been fighting to preserve Emmett’s legacy. Many were focused on the future of Bryant’s Grocery & Meat Market in Money, Miss., where Emmett’s encounter with the white shopkeeper Carolyn Bryant led to his kidnapping and killing by her husband, Roy Bryant, and Roy’s half brother, J.W. Milam. While groups have fought for years to restore the building — now a ruin — they have not been able to reach a deal with the owners, whose father served as a juror in the murder trial.
But there are several other sites with physical structures related to the case, including the barn in Drew, Miss., where Emmett was beaten and tortured, and the bridge in Glendora from which his body is believed to have been thrown into the river. As Audra described it to me, Emmett’s kidnapping and lynching “unfolded in a terror trail across three towns in three counties.”
To examine Emmett Till’s legacy in those three towns, we took a multimedia approach — combining present-day on-the-ground reporting with archival research, and overlaying 360-degree video with images from the 1955 case, for an interactive article; and also producing a virtual reality documentary.
VR and 360 video are experiential tools that we use to create a sense of presence, space or scale. As this project was focused on the physical remnants of Emmett’s story, and how these sites are being memorialized — the presence of the past — we chose to use immersive elements to illustrate that concept. 
This was Audra’s first time working with the medium. “I had to put away years of distancing myself from stories and open myself to a more intimate storytelling experience,” she said. “That meant actually appearing in some footage but also learning how to quickly move or duck for clean shots.”
“What’s so powerful is the ability to carry us back to 1955, beyond the printed words,” she told me after watching the footage. “I felt like I was completely immersed in a history that happened before I was born.”
We began by exploring what archival news clippings, photos, video and audio were available for each of the sites connected to the case. Audra and I then traveled to Mississippi for most of a week with my Immersive team colleague Tim Chaffee, who filmed the sites so we could match the archival photos with 360 video.
For the VR documentary, we created a composite of the archival material to remind viewers of Emmett’s story and its impact on history. Designing and editing this part of the project took months of work by Nicole Fineman, a Times graphics producer, who physically cut up and arranged news clippings and photos before transforming her vision via Adobe After Effects editing software and employing line animation to grab viewers’ attention.
We hoped to convey how the debate over Emmett’s memory has “played out over the decades,” as Audra put it in her article.
The Mississippi activists we interviewed remain committed to preserving the historical record despite the vandalism. Patrick Weems, co-founder of the Emmett Till Interpretive Center, told us, “It’s been a struggle to keep those signs up, but we think it’s part of the front line of this tug of war between memory and how we negotiate our past and future.”
If art really does imitate life, it may be best in certain instances to make clear which is taking place.
That idea was reflected in a post the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department shared on Facebook on Friday night.
The department’s San Dimas station got a call on Wednesday about a possible kidnapping along Highway 39 in the San Gabriel Mountains, according to the Sheriff’s Department.
The caller said he saw two people pointing a gun at another person whose hands were duct taped near a black BMW sedan.
It was a call that deputies took seriously, Sgt. Michael McGrattan of the Sheriff’s Department said in an interview Friday night.
“Typically on a call like that, we would send multiple deputies,” he said. “That’s actually a remote location up in the mountains. Up in the mountains there, we actually from time to time, we have bodies dumped, we have had shootings, we have had murders.”
Deputies proceeded with caution, he said, and conducted what the agency called a “high-risk” traffic stop on the car.
They found three men, and detained them, according to the Facebook post.
Deputy Ed Luna said in an interview on Friday night that all three men were interviewed separately, and that their stories matched.
But it was not a kidnapping — at least not a real one.
“It turns out they were filming a music video,” Sergeant McGrattan said. “They were enacting a kidnapping, so to speak.”
But they had a real gun, he said. One of the men was charged with a misdemeanor for openly carrying an unloaded firearm in a vehicle, he said.
In its Facebook post, the department offered some practical advice: If anyone is filming a music video in the mountains, do not pretend to kidnap and duct tape someone and use a real gun.
At least not without telling the authorities.
“That way we can at least pass by or make sure if anyone calls on it, let them know it’s just a movie shoot,” Deputy Luna said.
The Facebook post concluded: “Mental note: book a place to film your music video! Maybe advise the cops first?!”
For months, employees of the International Committee of the Red Cross have made weekly visits to a detention camp in northern Syria bearing a photograph of a petite woman in her early 60s.
They show the image to camp officials, comparing it with pictures of tens of thousands of other people in the camp’s database. All of them are escapees from the Islamic State’s last stretch of territory, which fell to American-backed forces last month.
The woman in the photo is Louisa Akavi, 62, a New Zealand nurse and midwife who was abducted in late 2013 in the northwest Syrian city of Idlib. She is one of the last links to the group of at least 23 Western hostages held by ISIS, a majority of whom were released for ransom while others were killed in widely publicized beheadings.
For more than five years, her employer and her government imposed an especially strict media blackout, warning that any mention not only of her identity, but even of her nationality, could endanger her. But now that ISIS’ caliphate has collapsed, the aid group has broken its silence in hopes that the public can help find her and two Red Cross drivers, both Syrians, kidnapped alongside her.
“From the moment Louisa and the others were kidnapped, every decision we made was to maximize the chances of winning their freedom,” said Yves Daccord, director general of the humanitarian organization, in his first interview about his missing colleagues. “With the Islamic State group having lost the last of its territory, we felt it was now time to speak out.”
The aid group and the New Zealand government have reason to believe she is alive. As recently as December, Red Cross officials said, at least two people described seeing her at a clinic in Sousa, one of the final villages to be held by ISIS.
The Red Cross also considers credible at least three other reported sightings of her — in Abu Kamal in 2016, Raqqa in 2017 and Mayadeen last year, officials with the aid group said.
Some of the witnesses said they saw her performing medical duties at clinics and hospitals under ISIS control, indicating that she was no longer held in a cell and was able to use her nursing skills to win a modicum of freedom, according to Mr. Daccord.
Current and former American intelligence officials, as well as government officials in New Zealand, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said there were strong indications that she was alive last year, based on sightings. The American officials also said that Ms. Akavi might have been held with a British hostage, the journalist John Cantlie, at Mosul University in neighboring Iraq, before the area was liberated in late 2016.
Based on the intelligence indicating that Ms. Akavi was still alive, New Zealand deployed special forces to Syria to search for her, the foreign minister, Winston Peters, said in a statement on Monday. The “non-combat” team, which has included members from the New Zealand Defense Force and the Foreign Ministry staff, is authorized to visit Syria “from time to time,” Mr. Peters said. “The efforts to locate and recover Louisa are ongoing.”
Ms. Akavi would be the longest-held hostage in the 156-year history of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the group said. Her ordeal began in late October 2013, when she traveled to Idlib to deliver medical supplies. Three days later, she and six colleagues were returning to Damascus in a convoy marked with the Red Cross emblem when gunmen stopped them at a checkpoint. Four of the aid workers were freed the next day, but Ms. Akavi and two others, Nabil Bakdounes and Alaa Rajab, remain missing.
Mr. Daccord was immediately alerted to their disappearance, and a 15-member Red Cross team, including a crisis group in Geneva, began looking for them. “I was convinced she’d be back soon — 24 hours, 48 hours, a week,” said Avril Patterson, a colleague of Ms. Akavi’s who arrived in Damascus a day after her friend’s disappearance. “And then as time goes on, your denial doesn’t work anymore.”
At first, the Red Cross did not know the identity of the captors. But then, a school near the checkpoint where the workers were taken was painted with the ISIS logo.
Months later, in phone calls, emails and text messages, the terrorist group negotiated with the Red Cross, initially demanding a ransom of less than 1 million euros — under $1.1 million — and calling for the release of detained ISIS fighters. But the ransom fluctuated as time went on, the aid group said, rising to €20 million before dropping down to €5 million, the amount requested for several other Western hostages.
In those exchanges, the Red Cross was able to send proof-of-life questions, asking for the number of Ms. Akavi’s insurance policy, which her family said was written on a card the nurse kept with her. ISIS provided the correct number, one of several personal questions the group answered that convinced the Red Cross it was in fact speaking to her captors, Mr. Daccord said.
By early 2014, the aid group confirmed that Ms. Akavi was being detained in a facility next to an oil installation outside Raqqa. She shared a cell with an American aid worker, Kayla Mueller, according to the aid group and others who were in the same jail. An adjacent cell held more than a dozen male prisoners from Europe and North America, including the American journalist James Foley, as well as Mr. Cantlie, the only other Western hostage who may still be alive, according to a statement in February by a British government official.
By mid-2014, ISIS had released most of the hostages after their governments, and sometimes their employers or families, paid multimillion-dollar ransoms. But three British and four American citizens, whose governments hew to a strict no-ransom policy, remained behind, along with Ms. Akavi.
That August, after failing to get a ransom for his release, ISIS killed Mr. Foley. His beheading, and the similarly brutal deaths of two British hostages and the remaining American men in the next few months, shocked the public and rattled the Obama administration. That set in motion a military intervention in Syria that ended just weeks ago with the collapse of ISIS’ rule.
The female prisoners were initially spared, even though ISIS sent the Red Cross an email in July 2014 saying it planned to execute both Ms. Akavi and Ms. Mueller as retaliation for a failed rescue attempt by American commandos, according to Mr. Daccord.
By autumn, the women were sharing their cell with two Yazidi teenagers who had been abducted with thousands of other women in Iraq to be used as sex slaves.
“They took us to Raqqa and put us in a jail — that’s where we met Kayla and Louisa,” recalled one of the teenagers, D., who asked to be identified only by her first initial. “Louisa was old. She said her hand was hurting,” said D., now 19, who was interviewed in 2015 at a refugee camp in Iraq after escaping.
She described how for most of the day, Ms. Akavi lay on the floor of their cell, apparently too ill to sit up. The Red Cross was warned in communications with ISIS that Ms. Akavi was sick, Mr. Daccord said, but never learned what was wrong. A proof-of-life video in the summer of 2014 showed her looking tired, but with no visible signs of injury or illness.
Sometime that fall, guards moved Ms. Mueller and the Yazidi girls to a villa where they became sex slaves to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the caliph of the terrorist group, according to the teenagers and the former United States officials. Ms. Akavi was left behind, apparently because of her age and frail health, the two girls said. ISIS announced that Ms. Mueller, 26, died in early 2015, claiming she was killed in an airstrike by the American-led coalition.
Born on Rarotonga in the Cook Islands, Ms. Akavi was raised in New Zealand. She completed her nursing training at Wellington Hospital in 1977 and went on to work in hospitals in New Zealand, England and Scotland.
She deployed on her first Red Cross mission in 1988, treating Vietnamese boat people in Malaysia, she recalled in an oral history recorded for a university thesis.
Ms. Akavi later served in war zones including Somalia, Chechnya, Iraq and Afghanistan. “I know I can make a difference — a small difference,” she told the Kapiti Observer newspaper in 2010.
She had her share of close calls. In 1996, Ms. Akavi survived an attack by gunmen on a Red Cross medical center near Grozny, in Chechnya, by hiding in a locked room. Six colleagues perished in the assault, the most deadly in the organization’s history.
Three years later, she was awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal, the highest international distinction a nurse can achieve.
In late 2014, ISIS stopped responding to the Red Cross’s messages, and there was no news of Ms. Akavi in 2015, officials with the aid group said. But in 2016, they received a tentative confirmation that a foreign woman matching her description had been spotted in Abu Kamal, a town in Syria where the group’s fighters had retrenched.
Then, in what Mr. Daccord called “a breakthrough,” several people who had escaped to detention camps in Iraq in late 2017 told Red Cross workers they had been treated by Ms. Akavi in Syria.
“This was incredible information to receive, apparent confirmation of her location, that she was still alive and that she was still doing what she is trained to do and has long done: providing medical care in a conflict zone,” Mr. Daccord said.
Among the strongest evidence that she was still alive came just four months ago, when two people interviewed by the Red Cross confirmed seeing her working as a nurse in Sousa.
But since then, there has been no reported sighting. Tens of thousands of ISIS supporters — including fighters and their wives and children — poured into the desert in the final weeks before the group’s last toehold was liberated. The women are being held behind a chain-link fence at the al-Hol detention camp. The sprawling tent city has been described as a “mini-caliphate” with ISIS wives patrolling the area, threatening women who do not cover their faces.
On weekly trips, Red Cross workers are checking the camp for Ms. Akavi. They worry she may be inside and fearful of identifying herself because of possible repercussions from ISIS loyalists there.
And so, a few weeks ago, a senior Red Cross official traveled to the camp with one mission: erect a tall Red Cross flag amid the tents. It is intended to be a beacon of sorts for Ms. Akavi, encouraging her to approach her colleagues and seek refuge, if she is there.
“There is a chance that it will reach her,” Mr. Daccord said.
KAMPALA, Uganda — An American woman and her Ugandan guide who were kidnapped while on safari this past week have been freed after a ransom was paid, according to officials with the safari company with which they were traveling.
The Ugandan police said in a statement posted on Twitter Sunday that the police and security forces “have rescued” the two kidnapping victims. One official with the safari company, Wild Frontiers, who asked not to be named, said the two were currently “enjoying a square meal and hot shower” at a wilderness camp in Uganda run by the company.
They were dropped off at a point near the border of Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo on Sunday, the official said. He asked not to be named because he was not authorized to provide details about the circumstances of the release.
The official said he did not know the identity of the kidnappers and that Wild Frontiers paid the ransom.
The woman, Kimberly Sue Endicott, of California, was kidnapped Tuesday evening while on a game drive in Queen Elizabeth national park in Uganda. Also taken was her Ugandan guide, Jean-Paul Mirenge Remezo.
The park, home to more than 600 bird species and some 2,500 elephants, is generally regarded as safe for tourists.
A group of gunmen stopped the tourists’ vehicle and seized the American woman and the guide. The gunmen left behind a Canadian couple in their late 70s, who continued on their vacation.
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — A judge has sentenced a western Michigan man to life in prison for killing a 16-year-old girl who accused him of rape.
Forty-three-year-old Quinn James of Wyoming, Michigan, learned his sentence Monday after a Grand Rapids jury found him guilty of first-degree murder in the strangulation death of Mujey Dumbuya. Her partially clothed body was found in January 2018 in woods in Kalamazoo, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southeast of her Grand Rapids-area home.
James was a maintenance worker at Dumbuya's school, and she accused him of sexual assault in 2017. Authorities say James killed the girl while free on a $100,000 cash bond in the assault case.
He was sentenced last December to 20 to 30 years in prison for third-degree criminal sexual conduct.
Hexes and jinxes, maledictions, imprecations, anathema, damnation, fukú. Avada Kedavra, cursed be Canaan, Macbeth, “good luck” and screw you.
Curses are versatile fictions, foundational to myth and literature, to the power of speech acts and religious taboos, even to national and ethnic identity. In some stories, they are the handicaps that mark future heroes — like the lame legs of Sundiata Keita, legendary “Lion King” of Mali, or Harry Potter’s lightning scar. In others, they are instruments of divine comeuppance, like the boulder of Sisyphus or the mark of Cain. The main requirement is to endow misfortune with narrative and moral significance, if not always with a corresponding sense of justice or proportion. In Charles Perrault’s original “Sleeping Beauty,” the prick of a spindle is enough to send the princess off to her 100-year slumber. Pandora merely opens a box.
The curse has no concept of limited liability; a single transgression can quickly swell into a lasting stigma. Tertullian used Eve’s disobedience to slander women as “the devil’s gateway,” and Byzantine persecutors popularized the idea that God smote Sodom and Gomorrah — cities once thought guilty of inhospitality — for homosexuality. Perhaps the most opaque curse in the Bible, which Noah pronounced on his son Ham, has proved one of its most destructive. Noah, lying hungover and naked in his tent, awakens to realize that Ham has glimpsed him in this state, and, in an unaccountable fit of rage, damns Ham’s son Canaan and his lineage to perpetual servitude. The passage makes no reference to Africa, but centuries of Muslim, Jewish and Christian commentators have tethered Ham’s curse to blackness, thereby justifying slavery from the plantations of the Deep South to the salt mines of the Sahara.
If theology often sharpens curses to dogmatic points, great novels can transform them into open-ended questions, unsettling easy pieties about cause and effect, past and present, crime and punishment. Toni Morrison’s novel “Beloved,” the story of a formerly enslaved woman’s confrontation with the infant she killed, moved a generation to reckon with slavery’s intimate violence and its enduring legacy. The fukú of Junot Díaz’s novel “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao” — a curse brought to the New World by Columbus — gave new dimension to the deep interconnectedness of American histories, weaving a rich tangle of science fiction, Caribbean politics and family lore around the tragicomic life of a Dominican nerd in New Jersey. The narrator of “Oscar Wao” dubs his tale a “counterspell,” an apt description of storytelling’s power to reverse (or at least reverse-engineer) the vector of fate. What seems like a curse might also be a birthright, a special form of insight, a destiny.
Four recent books by African women writers turn curse narratives to historically restorative ends. Reclaiming the device from essentializing myths — a “cursed” gender, a “cursed” continent — they ask what function curses play in the manufacture of histories, families, villages and nations, simultaneously paying homage to the ostracized. These are tales of the “curse” as universal warning and hard-earned insight; as means of giving redemptive shape to suffering; as latent superpower and catalyst to solidarity.
Ancestral curses often “explain” a group’s essential character. But a 2017 novel by the Ugandan writer Jennifer Nansubuga Makumbi inverts that conceit: What if a curse expressed all the ways that families, cities and nations fail to cohere? This is the question posed by KINTU (Transit Books, paper, $16.95), a sweeping portrait of Ugandan history that begins with the fall of a powerful clan in the 18th century and follows the family’s line through the 21st. The novel, like Genesis, is an origin story; it takes its title from the name of Buganda mythology’s “first man.”
Makumbi’s original sinner is the nobleman Kintu Kidda, a beleaguered patriarch consumed by his diplomatic, military and conjugal responsibilities. He serves a bloodthirsty monarch and governs a recently conquered borderland, which he tours in a never-ending circuit of visits to his auxiliary wives. (Makumbi has called the novel “masculinist”; among its great strengths is her attention to the performative burdens patriarchy imposes on men.) Kintu often feels like “a seed dispenser … a slave to procreation and to the kingdom,” but at home, his problems are worse than sexual overcommitment. Married to estranged twins — he loves one; tradition makes the other obligatory — he struggles to command a family that simmers with resentments, rivalries, deceptions and internal contradictions.
In Genesis, Ham sins against his father, Noah. In “Kintu,” the patriarch himself is culpable, and the crime is negligence. It begins when Kintu accidentally kills his adopted son and conceals the incident from the boy’s biological father, a Rwandan Tutsi living at the fringes of the community. When the man finds out, he curses Kintu, precipitating a chain of domestic tragedies that afflicts the clan for generations. In the chapters that follow, Makumbi traces the fallout in the lives of Kintu’s modern descendants.
Though she ironically alludes to Ham in an epigraph from the 19th-century explorer John Hanning Speke — “I profess accurately to describe naked Africa … a striking existing proof of the Holy Scriptures” — the joke is how thoroughly her novel snubs his Victorian myopia. “Kintu” pointedly omits the colonial period, and with it the narrative of Europe in Africa that has dominated so much of the continent’s literature. Neither Ham’s nor Africa’s, “Kintu”’s curse grounds a fundamental inquiry into the making and unmaking of families, the negotiation of boundaries and roles and the perpetual question of who — whether in a clan or a country — really belongs.
Writing with the assurance and wry omniscience of an easygoing deity, Makumbi watches her protagonists live out invariably provisional answers. They are pagans and Christians, vagabonds and military generals, newspaper columnists and victims of H.I.V. Some are looking for families, like the orphan girl vying for her neighbors’ charity in a crowded Kampala boardinghouse. Others are in flight from relatives, like the elderly Christian missionary nostalgic for British rule. Named Kanani (or “Canaan”), he believes that faith will save him from the family curse and spends his days proselytizing at captive commuters: “The church was like a bus and brethren were passengers on their way to heaven rather than a family.”
None quite manage to escape or fulfill their appointed roles; when “Kintu”’s carnival of clans, royal courts, Kampala apartments and church groups concludes, it is hardly clearer what form “family” might take, or how individuals should reconcile themselves to kinship. There is, nevertheless, a beauty to how Makumbi’s characters improvise alternatives to what they do not have or cannot be. In one characteristically tender and comic moment, a young man without a father looks for a surrogate to negotiate with a school’s headmaster over a scholarship. His roommate obliges, and finds himself so caught up in the charade that he sheds prideful tears at his “son”’s test results. Dressed for the meeting in a pinstripe suit that makes him resemble “a broke black gangster from an American film,” he boasts and blusters with a parent’s loving obstinacy. It may be a curse that families never “work,” but it is surely a blessing that they can always be reinvented.
If Makumbi’s Kintus are cursed like Cain, the heroes of Wayétu Moore’s SHE WOULD BE KING (Graywolf Press, $26) are cursed like Storm, Wolverine and Professor X. The Liberian-American writer’s debut novel is a Marvelesque national epic about Liberia’s independence centered on three supernaturally gifted misfits. The leader is Gbessa, an immortal girl expelled as a witch by her indigenous Vai people, who finds shelter among the black American settlers of Monrovia. (The American Colonization Society, an antebellum organization dedicated to resettling African-Americans in West Africa, established Liberia in 1821. The country declared independence in 1847.)
Gbessa joins forces with two other renegades: a magically invincible plantation runaway from Virginia and a Jamaican maroon with the ability to disappear. These newcomers patrol the coast like abolitionist avengers, superpowering their way through every coffle and barracoon they encounter. Meanwhile, in the ballrooms of Monrovia, Gbessa uneasily assimilates into the Americo-Liberian settler elite. The trio’s powers — immortality, for Africa’s antiquity; invisibility, for maroon cunning; invincibility for the endurance of enslaved African-Americans — allegorize the diasporic strands united by the country’s history: Who needs Wakanda when Liberia already has it all?
The varied and frenetic action makes for a novel that, while stimulating, is often confusing and overstuffed. Some sections read like folk tales or adventure novels, while those set in Virginia serve up reheated plantation melodrama. “She Would Be King” shows greater originality when Moore dissects Monrovia’s social world. Patronized by Americo-Liberian ladies who see themselves less as fellow Africans than as a civilizing vanguard, Gbessa negotiates a double exclusion that only intensifies once she marries the settlers’ military chief. A conflict between the new arrivals and her estranged kin forces her into the role of mediator, brokering a hybrid identity for Africa’s first republic.
Few novelists have explored the singular relationship between Liberia’s black settlers, for whom “returning” to Africa was a form of deliverance from American white supremacy, and the indigenous people who fell under their dominion. Moore’s sophisticated treatment of this encounter showcases her novelistic talents, though the tension somewhat dissipates when the “real” enemies arrive: The complex dance of nation-building gives way to a Garveyite battle royale pitting the reconciled settlers and natives against French slavers who attack Monrovia.
The triangular trade did not always unify those menaced by its advance. SEASON OF THE SHADOW (Seagull Books, $24.50), a novel by the Cameroonian writer Léonora Miano, considers slavery from the perspective of its first victims, West Africans for whom it was not a burdensome past but a nebulous and terrifying present. The story’s “curse” is a community’s decision to blame this incipient disaster on witchcraft, a cowardly act of scapegoating that leaves them defenseless against the very real apocalypse at hand.
“Season of the Shadow,” translated from the French by Gila Walker, takes place in an isolated Douala village where a dozen men have disappeared. Several of their mothers are relegated to a communal dwelling to commiserate, an act that leads to their ostracism once a mysterious shadow materializes overhead. Like the Trojans who imprisoned the prophet Cassandra, the elders quarantine and ignore the bereaved women, with catastrophic results. Here at the beginning of slavery’s world-blighting Rapture, “night has become more than a moment in time. It is duration, space, the color of ages to come.”
Reading Miano’s brilliant, pitiless novel is like treading water in an undertow. The approaching wave — more than four centuries high and tens of millions of victims long — is invisible from within the story’s deliberately confined perspective. But the omission only enhances its force. We may know all about the Middle Passage, but Miano’s characters know only that their boys are missing; that the neighboring towns’ hunters have built an unusual number of forest retreats; that somewhere at the world’s edge, the Coastlanders do a brisk business with the “men with hen feet.” (Beyond this enigmatic phrase, Europeans have almost no presence in the novel. The fleets of scavenging Guineamen anchor just beyond the frame, like U.F.O.s.) The elimination of hindsight is narratively thrilling and Miano’s decision to adopt a Douala perspective and chronology — rather than the diaspora’s elegiac retrospect — profoundly original.
These are nobody’s “ancestors.” Miano’s protagonists are not the abducted but those who investigate their disappearance: the midwife, the chief’s scheming brother, a desperate mother who tracks her kidnapped son through the bush. None manage to save the village from its ruinous complacency but several find sanctuary in a hidden lake village beyond the slavers’ nets. (Slaving gave rise to many such settlements; Ganvié, perched over a lagoon in Benin, has been called the “Venice of Africa.”) Their desperate ingenuity serves as a powerful lesson: It is often the most vulnerable, those thought “cursed” because of circumstance, who first apprehend threats endangering everyone.
Decades before the 1994 genocide in which her parents and 35 of her other relatives were killed, Scholastique Mukasonga endured its grim precursor amid Rwanda’s independence. Her memoir BAREFOOT WOMAN (Archipelago Books, paper, $16), translated from the French by Jordan Stump, is a tribute to her mother, Stefania, and the refugee women of Bugesera, a Land of Nod where the Hutu government relocated thousands of Rwandan Tutsis in the 1960s.
Royal tradition and colonial race science once afforded the Tutsi minority a superior place in Rwanda’s social hierarchy, but Mukasonga grew up in the aftermath of this illusory privilege. Premised on a European obsession with the Tutsis as a eugenically or even biblically chosen race of “Hamites,” it ultimately proved a curse.
Conceived as a “shroud” of sentences for her mother, “Barefoot Woman” is also a paean to the traditions of Rwandan womanhood Stefania preserved in exile. Bugesera’s deportees lived in a world of scarce bread, travel restrictions, constant surveillance and the daily threat of assault by Hutu soldiers, some of whom considered the rape of young Tutsi women a “revolutionary act.” Stefania’s house was a bulwark against this unrelenting terror; its back courtyard, a gathering place for local women, is “Barefoot Woman”’s inner sanctum.
Enthroned on a termite mound in the courtyard, under the “parasol” of a tall coffee tree, Stefania presides over family matters and, on Sundays, a “genuine Parliament” of pipe-smoking wives, whose duties include matchmaking sessions where marriageable young women audition for Stefania’s endorsement. Around the hearth, old Rwandan folk tales dispel the gloom of exile. Yet loss is lodged in every reminiscence. Grief recalls Mukasonga to the hard present; emerging from the memory of her mother’s friends, she finds herself loitering by the window of a pipe shop in France. She stays outside — what savor could tobacco have without another woman to share it?
Mukasonga is a master of subtle shifts in register — a skill inherited, perhaps, from the Rwandan traditions of intricate courtesy and assiduous privacy that Stefania maintained. She turns everything over restlessly: In her prose, poignant reminiscences sharpen into bitter ironies, or laments reveal flashes of comedy, determination, defiance.
Interrupting the memory of her mother’s folk tales, Mukasonga reflects on the “other stories” invented by white people, “experts” who “concocted a tailor-made race just for us.” More painful still is the recollection that Stefania took pride in these ersatz origin stories, including a theory that Tutsis were not true Rwandans but had migrated from what she called “Businiya” (a corruption of Abyssinia, or Ethiopia). It was a story the génocidaires of 1994, endeavoring to reclaim their country for “real” Rwandans, took to heart — “Businiya, Abyssinia, Ethiopia: How could my mother have foreseen that those words would bring death to so many of us?”
What solace is possible when a sustaining identity is also the germ of a tragedy — when who you are becomes a curse? It is a theme that Mukasonga perpetually revisits, often discovering the balm for traditional stigmas within tradition itself.
One of “Barefoot Woman”’s most wrenching passages is also its most resolute. When soldiers rape and impregnate a young woman fetching water, convention dictates that she and her child are cursed. But “solidarity and pity” prove “stronger than tradition” as Stefania finds a way to circumvent the anathema. After the baby is born, she and several other women wash mother and child in the waters of a sacred spring, where legend holds that Rwanda’s founding monarch once thrust his spear into the ground.
The improvised ritual is a retelling that also grasps at a redeemed future, and its impulse echoes in the novels of Miano, Moore and Makumbi. These books insist that if curses have any virtue, it may be in returning us to the beginning — that Archimedean point from which every story can be remade, where the difference between “malediction” and “benediction” can be as slight as a switched prefix.
RALEIGH, N.C. — Authorities say a North Carolina man had two young children and his girlfriend with him in a car when he fatally shot a man as he went to buy drugs.
The Wake County Sheriff's Office tells news outlets 26-year-old James Hooker of Fuquay-Varina is charged with murder and child abuse after Monday's fatal shooting. Arrest warrants indicate Hooker had a 2-week-old infant, a 1-year-old child and his girlfriend with him at the time. Investigators say 36-year-old Michael Antwan Farrington of Cary died at a hospital of a gunshot wound.
Hooker was jailed on a $100,000 bond on the child abuse charges and faced a scheduled court appearance Tuesday. Authorities didn't say whose children they were or identify them further.
It's not known if Hooker has an attorney.
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia — A few months before his murder, Jan Kuciak received a disturbing phone call from one of Slovakia’s most prominent businessmen. Mr. Kuciak had written more than a dozen articles about the businessman, Marian Kocner, outlining a pattern of corrupt dealings made possible by his connections with the police and prosecutors. Mr. Kocner, long thought to have ties to organized crime, was furious.
“You can be sure that I will start paying special attention to you personally, Mr. Kuciak,” Mr. Kocner told the 27-year-old investigative reporter in September 2017.
Mr. Kuciak reported the threat to the police but, after more than a month, he wrote on Facebook that officers had yet to pick up the case. When they did, they dismissed it without even interviewing Mr. Kocner, according to the authorities.
In February 2018, Mr. Kuciak, 27, was shot dead in his home. His 27-year-old fiancée, Martina Kusnirova, was also killed there.
The crime tore at the heart of a nation, drew tens of thousands of people to the streets in anger and disgust, and eventually forced the resignation of the prime minister, Robert Fico, and of other top government officials.
Slovak authorities announced on Thursday that they had charged Mr. Kocner with ordering the murder of Mr. Kuciak and hiring a hit man to kill him.
In charging Mr. Kocner, who is currently in jail awaiting trial on unrelated fraud charges, the authorities in Slovakia hope to regain a measure of the public trust that has been shattered by the killings and by the rampant corruption that Mr. Kuciak and other reporters were working to expose.
The announcement of the charges came just two days before a presidential election, with the governing party’s candidate trailing badly in the polls. It was unclear what impact the charges would have on Saturday’s vote.
Since the murders, Mr. Fico’s party, SMER-SD, has seen its support plummet. Many who are angry at the government contend that if the authorities had acted sooner to take action against Mr. Kocner — whose alleged financial crimes were exposed by Mr. Kuciak and other reporters before his death — things might not have taken such a tragic turn.
During a news conference on Thursday, a special prosecutor taking part in the investigation said that the authorities had compiled a 15,000-page report that showed how Mr. Kocner had orchestrated the killing and how it had been motivated by Mr. Kuciak’s work.
Late last year, officers staged a series of raids and charged four people in connection with the killings, including a former police officer named Tomas Szabo, who was accused of being the paid assassin; a former serviceman, Miroslav Marcek; and Alena Zsuzsova, a translator with ties to Mr. Kocner who is said to have worked as the fixer for the killings.
The fourth person arrested, Zoltan Andrusko, said it was Mr. Kocner who had paid more than $80,000 to have Mr. Kuciak killed, according to the authorities.
There are few figures as well known in Bratislava, the Slovak capital, as the 55-year-old Mr. Kocner. He has found himself at the center of scandals dating back more than a decade.
In 2005 and 2011, the police leaked lists of names to the news media of people they suspected of being tied to organized crime. Mr. Kocner’s name was on both lists.
Mr. Kocner has denied any illicit connections, but he seemed to bask in the notoriety and flaunted his lavish lifestyle. Whether he was driving his Bentley or his red Ferrari, he made it a point of demonstrating that the rules did not apply to him by parking in spots designated for the handicapped.
When the tabloid newspaper Novy Cas asked Mr. Kocner about this habit, he dismissed the question, saying he always paid the fine.
Mr. Kocner was something of a fixture in the tabloids, often shown on exotic vacations where he said he occasionally “bumped into” top politicians.
It was a far different world than the one Mr. Kocner was born into in the town of Ruzomberok in northern Slovakia. He grew up in a working-class family, and he went on to study journalism at Comenius University in Bratislava.
He worked for several years as a reporter for the broadcaster Slovak Television, but as the country transitioned to capitalism after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, he was drawn to the business world.
Mr. Kocner stood out even by the brash standards of the 1990s, when scores of sometimes unscrupulous characters sought to take control of former state enterprises.
Slovak news outlets had been recently looking into a number of financial transactions involving Mr. Kocner, including three million euros, or about $3.4 million, reportedly deposited in one of his accounts from Belize via Malta. Mr. Kocner said the money was profit from “selling bonds,” though he offered no information about whom he was selling them to or any other details of the transaction.
He was also wrapped up in a scandal known as the Basternak affair, much of which was exposed by a whistle-blower.
The alleged scheme involved a series of suspicious property sales for which Ladislav Basternak, a wealthy yet little-known developer, fraudulently received millions of euros in tax returns. Mr. Basternak later sold one of his companies to the Slovak interior minister at the time, Robert Kalinak. Some of the dealings included firms linked to Mr. Kocner, who still owns properties connected to Mr. Basternak.
For his part, Mr. Kocner often organized news conferences to which he invited investigative journalists — by turns courting them and trying to intimidate them.
He bragged about being on first-name terms with top government officials, although most of those he named would invariably deny having any sort of relationship with Mr. Kocner.
Daniel Lipsic, a former deputy prime minister and interior minister, said recently that Mr. Kocner “thought he was invincible” because of his contacts in the police and the prosecution service.
Mr. Kocner, when feeling under threat, would often leak compromising materials on politicians or reporters, gathered from surveillance of Facebook conversations, text messages, phone conversations or security cameras.
He would never explain how he had obtained the material, but he was very effective in getting it into the public sphere.
Journalists or politicians who crossed him were frequently targeted, and Mr. Kocner even promoted a website that published their personal information and unverified transcripts of their communications.
In the fall of 2017, Mr. Kuciak had been digging into Mr. Kocner’s financial transactions and contacts in the police and prosecution service. He was making progress untangling business dealings that showed how Mr. Kocner had been able to fraudulently earn millions of euros in tax returns from the state through a complicated series of financial transactions.
In September, Mr. Kuciak asked Mr. Kocner about his apartment in the Basternak building, which prompted Mr. Kocner to lash out with the threatening phone call, according to a transcript released by Mr. Kuciak’s editors at Aktuality.sk and confirmed as authentic by the police.
“I’ll be looking especially into you, your mother, your father and your siblings,“ Mr. Kocner told the reporter.
AN AMERICAN SUMMER Love and Death in Chicago By Alex Kotlowitz
On July 22, 2012, Darren Easterling was murdered in Park Forest, a mostly African-American suburb south of Chicago. Two days later, the local newspaper published a short article, headlined “Man Shot to Death in Park Forest Had Drug, Weapons Conviction,” that highlighted his criminal history. The story did not directly blame Easterling for his own homicide, but the implication was unmistakable: This was a man who lived and died among coldblooded killers. He got what he should have expected, if not what he deserved.
Easterling’s mother, Lisa, tells a different story. In high school, her athletic son had been a football player and an avid fan of documentary films. He wrote sweet birthday cards and letters. He had two children, and was an attentive, affectionate father. Lisa was all-too-aware of his dark side. Years before, she had kicked him out of her house for dealing drugs. He had done time for carrying a gun. Lisa had long worried that he was heading for disaster, but she also saw how he could turn things around. Darren’s death, in a drug deal that went haywire, sent her into a spiral of guilt, shame and sadness. When Darren’s killer went on trial, Lisa wanted to forgive him and ask the court for leniency, but that proved wrenching, too.
Stories like Lisa’s and Darren’s, told in dispatches covering three months during 2013, are the lifeblood of “An American Summer,” the journalist Alex Kotlowitz’s account of reckless brutality in the Chicago area’s impoverished, segregated neighborhoods. Although the narrative is organized around events from one summer, Kotlowitz spent four years immersed in the grim worlds where homicide is rampant. His reporting spans that period, and beyond.
[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of March. See the full list here. ]
Like Kotlowitz’s now classic 1991 book, “There Are No Children Here,” about two boys growing up in a Chicago housing project, “An American Summer” forgoes analysis and instead probes the human damage that stems from exposure to violence. What he finds is important. For instance, a destructive myth about people who live in Chicago’s most dangerous neighborhoods is that they’ve grown hardened, numb to the atrocities that saturate daily life. Kotlowitz confesses to believing this, at least temporarily, in 1998, when Pharoah, a main character of “There Are No Children Here,” seems unaffected by the murder of his taxi driver, which he witnesses up close. When Kotlowitz asks how he’s doing, Pharoah replies flatly: “O.K. Why?”
This exchange helps motivate Kotlowitz’s investigation into how people “carry” violence, whether they are perpetrators, victims, witnesses or merely associated with those involved. Kotlowitz interviewed roughly 200 people, and his expansive cast of characters includes social workers, police officers, political officials, a beat reporter and convicted killers, as well as dozens of ordinary people — children and adults whose lives have been shredded by bullets and guns.
Pharoah, he reports in “An American Summer,” had been so traumatized by the shooting he witnessed that, some two decades later, he can’t get it out of his mind. Over lunch in a restaurant, Pharoah hyperventilates and his eyes grow wide with fright as he tells Kotlowitz what happened. “It’s like I’m there,” he says, crouching down as if to take cover. Far from being inured to bloodshed, Pharoah, and others who live in America’s most dangerous neighborhoods, experience the world like war veterans. As Kotlowitz puts it, “The violence is in his bones.”
It’s deeper in Thomas, who grew up in Englewood, a rough, depopulated neighborhood on the South Side. Thomas was unlucky enough to live on 70th Place, a street so treacherous that some call it the “block of death,” and to attend Harper High School, where, during his junior year, 21 students and recent graduates were wounded by gunfire and seven were shot and killed. When he was 10, his 11-year-old friend and neighbor, Nugget, was murdered at her own birthday party, and Thomas saw “her brain matter oozing out of her skull onto her braids.” Months earlier, Thomas’s older brother Leon got shot while playing on the sidewalk. Leon couldn’t move his legs (and never would again), so Thomas sat with him, urging him to hold on until the ambulance arrived.
That was elementary school. After that, Thomas would see a boy shot in the face, a friend shot in the leg, two men who had just been murdered in a car. He joined a gang, or “crew,” called 7-0 for protection, de rigueur for boys on his block, but feared it wouldn’t help. In June 2012, Thomas and his good friend Shakiki were hanging out on the front porch of a house near his when he spotted a hooded boy from a rival crew running toward them, gun in hand. Moments later Shakiki was flat on the porch’s wooden slats, clutching her burning stomach. Eight hours later, she was dead.
The aftermath is excruciating. Shakiki, we learn, had anticipated the shooting. Just as in “There Are No Children Here,” where Pharoah’s brother Lafayette declares that “if I grow up, I’d like to be a bus driver,” here Kotlowitz recounts that Shakiki had asked Anita, one of her school’s two social workers, “if I die, will you write a note and put it in my casket?” This memory haunted Anita nearly as much as Shakiki’s murder. She began having nightmares and waking up in tears. One side of her face went numb and she had trouble seeing. Before long she sought out counseling herself.
Thomas fared worse. He struggled to concentrate and fell behind in school. He started shooting dice, smoking pot and threatening to hurt people. Some days he refused to go outside. The problem wasn’t only that he’d lost another close friend; it was also that the prosecutor wanted him to be the key witness, and Thomas knew that testifying would make him a target once again.
Only about one in 10 shooters gets arrested in Chicago. Kotlowitz emphasizes the “no-snitch code of the streets” as the reason. In his telling, it’s fear of retribution, not status or honor, that keeps people silent. “Fear runs through these communities like a steady rip current,” Kotlowitz says. A woman whose job is to support and encourage crime victims to testify instructs her own son not to after he’s shot by a known assailant. When a social worker at Harper High School asks a student how his summer was, he replies, “Safe.”
Kotlowitz states plainly that this kind of fear and violence is concentrated in Chicago’s black and Latino neighborhoods. The pattern is so widely taken for granted that one local newspaper printed the headline “Murder at a Good Address” after a homicide on tony Michigan Avenue. But Kotlowitz does not puzzle over the question of why, even in Chicago, black and Latino communities for the most part are safer than those featured in “An American Summer.” Nor does he investigate why places like Englewood are so lethal.
In recent years, social scientists have made great progress identifying neighborhood-level conditions that make violent crime more likely, from abandoned homes and empty lots to weak community organizations and widespread distrust of the police. As the sociologist Andrew V. Papachristos has written, the gap between Chicago’s lowest and highest homicide neighborhoods has expanded dramatically since 2006, owing to factors in the local social environment. Kotlowitz, however, depicts the question of what causes urban crime to rise and fall as essentially unanswerable. “Anyone who tells you they know is lying.”
This is a curious position, especially given the trend (hardly mentioned in “An American Summer”) that criminologists consider the most important fact about urban violence in recent decades: Most American cities have experienced far less of it than anyone predicted, and national experts feel more confident than ever about what works. Last year, for instance, New York City had the lowest homicide rate in nearly 70 years, and since 1990 the homicide rates in Los Angeles, Dallas and Washington, D.C., have dropped more than 70 percent.
Chicago, and a handful of hyper-segregated, postindustrial cities, including St. Louis, Baltimore, Detroit and Memphis, have failed to achieve such impressive numbers. Yet in 2018, Chicago’s homicide rate was roughly two-thirds of what it was in 1990. Chicago’s reputation as second to none for moral chaos — “citizens killing citizens, children killing children, police killing young black men” — is due mainly to its population size. President Trump, who called Chicago a “war zone” and threatened to send in the National Guard, and Spike Lee, who named his 2015 film “Chi-Raq,” have helped make Chicago the national symbol of murderous violence. Kotlowitz, despite good intentions, has reinforced this view.
Of course, the fact that most American cities, and most Chicago neighborhoods, are now much safer than they were 20 years ago does not make the violence that Kotlowitz documents any less devastating or significant. “An American Summer” is a powerful indictment of a city and a nation that have failed to protect their most vulnerable residents, or to register the depth of their pain.
It is also a case study in the constraints of a purely narrative approach to the problems of inequality and social suffering. Kotlowitz aims to tell unforgettable stories about the afterlife of homicide, how it penetrates the minds, bodies and communities of those it touches. He succeeds. You are nauseated, outraged, haunted, sad. But when you put the book down you are paralyzed. You hear the president call for military intervention, the mayor for better schools, the pastor for church. You have no answers or explanations. You have no idea what to do.
LOS ANGELES — Authorities on Friday recaptured a 15-year-old boy who is charged with killing his mother and managed to escape a Southern California juvenile facility.
A "very good lead" led authorities to a McDonald's restaurant in Anaheim, where Ike Souzer was taken peacefully into custody on Friday night, Orange County sheriff's Capt. Mike Peters said. The teenager was given medical treatment for puncture wounds on his leg that might have come from his escape, Peters said.
Ike Souzer escaped the Orange County Juvenile Hall, somehow got onto a roof and then jumped a perimeter fence just after midnight Friday, said Steve Sentman, chief probation officer for the county.
Jail staff spotted Souzer on the roof, then turned on a facility-wide alarm and called the sheriff's office, he said.
Peters said deputies were "very quick" to respond, but Souzer was able to elude capture.
The sheriff's office released surveillance footage showing Souzer tending to an apparent wound on his leg shortly after escaping and then walking seemingly casually away from the facility. The 6-foot, 200-pound teen was wearing red pants and a white shirt.
Dozens of law enforcement personnel, including FBI agents and federal marshals, searched for the boy.
Sentman said it was the first escape from the 434-bed facility in at least two decades and that an investigation is underway into how it happened.
Souzer has been in custody since he was 13, when he was arrested on suspicion of fatally stabbing his mother, 48-year-old Barbra Scheuer-Souzer. His escape came in the middle of Souzer's trial on a murder charge in juvenile court, said Kimberly Edds, a spokeswoman for the district attorney's office.
Souzer's public defender, David Hammond, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment late Friday.
A Gofundme page for Scheuer-Souzer says she was so good at helping her son with autism that she went back to school to help others with the condition and was about to graduate from the University of California, Los Angeles.
"Through her unconditional love and commitment, she helped her son go from non-verbal to verbal status," according to the page. "Her whole goal was to help her son and the autistic community by giving back and serving the needs of others."
Scheuer-Souzer had three other grown children and three grandchildren.
SANTIAGO, Chile — A judge convicted six men on Wednesday in the 1982 murder of former President Eduardo Frei Montalva of Chile, then the leader of the moderate opposition against the dictator Augusto Pinochet.
In an 811-page ruling, Judge Alejandro Madrid found that the men — a former security agent, four doctors and Mr. Frei’s driver — conspired to slowly poison Mr. Frei after he had surgery in a private clinic in Santiago, the capital, and then worked to conceal the autopsy report.
Mr. Frei, of the centrist Christian Democratic Party, served as president of Chile from 1964 to 1970. His government began a land reform program and took majority control of the copper industry, then in the hands of foreign corporations.
After initially supporting the 1973 military coup against his successor, Salvador Allende, Mr. Frei and his party soon became vocal opponents of the military junta because of widespread human rights violations. At the time of his death on Jan. 22, 1982, Mr. Frei was leading efforts to unite the moderate political opposition to oust General Pinochet.
“The regime decided that he had to be eliminated because he was an extremely dangerous figure for them, and put in motion a premeditated plan,” said his daughter Carmen Frei, the vice president of the Christian Democratic Party and the author of the 2017 book “Magnicide,” on the life and murder of her father.
Mr. Frei’s death, after a long and complicated post-surgical treatment, was deemed to be the result of natural causes at the time. However, in 2000, the Frei family received the first tips that pointed to the involvement of third parties, and Ms. Frei, then a senator, pushed for a formal investigation.
The case was opened in 2002 and Mr. Frei’s remains were exhumed two years later and sent to foreign labs, where they tested positive for toxic substances. They were exhumed again in 2016 for further analysis.
Judge Madrid, who had indicted the men in 2009, sentenced the former army doctor Patricio Silva to 10 years in prison. The former security agent Raúl Lillo and Mr. Frei’s longtime driver, Luis Becerra, were sentenced to seven years each. Three other defendants were sentenced to terms ranging from three to five years.
In a statement, President Sebastián Piñera conveyed his condolences to Mr. Frei’s family and expressed his “most indignant condemnation of such a cruel and vile act.”
Mr. Frei’s murder came at a time when opposition parties and the labor movement were regrouping after almost a decade of severe political repression. A month later, a prominent labor leader, Tucapel Jiménez, who was mobilizing a union movement against General Pinochet, was killed by security forces.
“The battle doesn’t end here,” said Mr. Frei’s son, also named Eduardo Frei, who was a president himself from 1994 to 2000. “Our next task is to establish the political responsibilities of high government officials at the time. This wasn’t the work of a few agents or doctors.”
CHICAGO — Three Chicago police officers were acquitted on Thursday of charges that they had conspired and lied to protect a white police officer who fired 16 deadly shots into a black teenager, a contentious verdict in a case over what many viewed as a “code of silence” in the Police Department.
The judgment, rendered in a tense, cramped courtroom overflowing with spectators, was delivered by a judge and not a jury. Speaking from the bench for close to an hour, Associate Judge Domenica Stephenson rejected the prosecutors’ arguments that the officers had shooed away witnesses and then created a narrative to justify the 2014 shooting, which prompted citywide protests, the firing of the police chief and a wide-ranging federal investigation into the police force.
The ruling came more than three months after Officer Jason Van Dyke was convicted in October of the second-degree murder of Laquan McDonald, and on the afternoon before he was scheduled to be sentenced for a killing that was captured on an infamous police dashboard camera video.
The three police officers — David March, Joseph Walsh and Thomas Gaffney — contradicted what the video showed. In it, Mr. Van Dyke fires repeatedly at Laquan, who is wielding a knife, as he moves slightly away from the officers and even as he lies crumpled on the ground. Prosecutors cited that footage repeatedly as they built a case against the officers, who are white, on charges of conspiracy, official misconduct and obstruction of justice.
Judge Stephenson said that even though the officers’ accounts of the shooting differed from the video, that did not amount to proof that they were lying. “Two people with two different vantage points can witness the same event,” she said, and still describe it differently.
The judge suggested that key witnesses for the prosecution had offered conflicting testimony, and said there was nothing presented at trial that showed that the officers had failed to preserve evidence, as the prosecutors had argued. Challenging the point that officers had shooed away a witness as part of a cover-up, the judge said it was not obvious that the police had known the witness had seen the shooting.
The officers, who were brought to trial in November, were accused of writing in official reports that Laquan had tried to stab three other officers, saying they saw him trying to get up from the ground even after a barrage of shots.
Mr. March, Mr. Walsh and Mr. Gaffney each denied that they had conspired to come up with a narrative that might justify Mr. Van Dyke’s decision to shoot Laquan. None of them fired any shots that night. Other officers, too, had witnessed the shooting and had given questionable accounts, but were not on trial; grand jurors indicted the three officers but declined to indict any others.
[Read More: Was the Laquan McDonald case a turning point or an aberration?]
It was “undisputed and undeniable,” Judge Stephenson said, that Laquan had ignored officers’ commands to drop his knife. While she spoke, the three officers sat silently, sometimes staring down at the carpet or nervously jiggling a leg. After she read the verdict, several people broke into applause.
Todd Pugh, a lawyer for Mr. Walsh, said afterward that the judge had acted with courage in rendering her verdict, despite what he called public pressure to find the officers guilty. “There never ever was a case,” he told reporters, adding that the grand jury had proved the axiom that it would indict a ham sandwich if given the opportunity.
Mr. Walsh, who was Mr. Van Dyke’s partner on the night of the shooting and who has resigned from the department, said little. The experience has been “heartbreaking for my family,” he said. “A year and a half.”
But many others were outraged.
“The verdict says to police officers that you can lie, cheat, steal, rape, rob and pillage, and it’s O.K.,” said the Rev. Marvin Hunter, who is Laquan’s great-uncle.
A group of ministers who gathered at the courthouse denounced the outcome. The Rev. Leon Finney, a pastor on Chicago’s South Side, called it a “travesty.”
“There was clearly evidence from the video that Laquan McDonald was not attacking or seeking to attack any of the law enforcement officers,” Mr. Finney said. “How could they all three make up a story indicating that Laquan was threatening their lives?”
Toni Preckwinkle, the Cook County Board president who is a candidate for mayor, called the decision “a devastating step backward.”
“Laquan’s murder has become a part of the fabric of our city,” she said. “The verdict today does not serve justice in the wake of the senseless loss of a young life.”
Speaking to reporters at the courthouse, Patricia Brown Holmes, the special prosecutor, said that while she disagreed with the judge’s ruling, she hoped that the trial had sent a message.
Ms. Holmes said she hoped that “others will think twice before engaging in conduct that might land them in an investigation such as this.”
“Hopefully one day there won’t be a code of silence,” she said.
Along with the officers, the broad concept of a police code of silence was on trial in Chicago, where officers have been accused for decades of covering up their colleagues’ misconduct.
As in other cities, residents have long complained that police officers stuck together when it came to accounting for their actions, and the issue has come up in cases involving drunken driving, the beating of a bartender and a lawsuit by two officers who said they faced retaliation after breaking the code. Even the city’s mayor, Rahm Emanuel, has acknowledged it.
In a speech in 2015, Mr. Emanuel condemned what he said was a tendency of some officers to ignore, deny and in “some cases cover up the bad actions of a colleague or colleagues.”
Mr. March, who also resigned, had been assigned to investigate the shooting. He merely wrote down what the witnesses told him had happened, a lawyer for Mr. March told the court during trial. Mr. Gaffney was one of the officers who first confronted Laquan on the evening of the shooting, after the police got a report of a man breaking into trucks on the city’s Southwest Side. He and other officers had followed the teenager, who was carrying a knife and ignoring orders to stop, for several blocks.
In a statement, Mr. Emanuel and Eddie Johnson, the superintendent of the Chicago Police, vowed that their work to improve the department would not stop.
“We will continue to take concrete steps to restore trust with communities across Chicago,” the statement said, “because trust is the best public safety tool we have.”
There were no protests after the verdicts were read, and William Calloway, a prominent Chicago activist who is running for City Council, urged Chicagoans to refrain. “To the black community, I know this hurts,” he said on Twitter. “We know this was a cover-up. I’m not saying take to the streets anymore. It’s time for us to take to the polls.”
“That blue code of silence is just not with the Chicago Police Department: It expands to the judicial system,” Mr. Calloway said at a news conference.
On Friday morning, the courts are scheduled for the final chapter in the Laquan case — a killing that came amid national protests and a spate of police shootings of black people. A Facebook group implored a “call to action”: “In room 500 at 9 a.m., show up to stand in solidarity with organizers and the family of Laquan McDonald as we demand, again, #Justice4Laquan.”
UNITED NATIONS — United Nations refugee chief Filippo Grandi warned on Tuesday that a deadly attack on two New Zealand mosques was the result of the worst toxicity in politics and media toward refugees, migrants and foreigners that he had witnessed in more than 30 years.
In an attack broadcast live on Facebook, a lone gunman armed with semi-automatic weapons targeted Muslims attending Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15, killing 50 worshippers and wounding dozens of people. 
A suspected white supremacist from Australia has been charged with 50 counts of murder.
Grandi told the U.N. Security Council that the state of discussions globally about refugees and migrants "should be of concern to us all." He did not specifically blame anyone. 
"I have never seen such toxicity, such poison in the language of politics, in media, in social media, even in everyday discussions and conversations around this issue," Grandi told the 15-member council during a meeting on the global refugee situation. 
"Toxicity that focuses - sadly, tragically - often on refugees, on migrants, on foreigners," he said. "What we have seen in Christchurch, New Zealand, is the result also of that toxic language of politics."
In the wake of the shootings, Australia has been gripped by acrimonious debate about both its past race policies and whether recent political discourse about immigration and Islam had any role to play in the accused gunman's radicalization.
The man said - in a manifesto distributed online just before the Christchurch attack - that he formed his racist beliefs on the internet and downplayed his links to Australia, saying he was radicalized abroad.
The manifesto also praised U.S. President Donald Trump as "a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose." 
White House director of strategic communications Mercedes Schlapp responded at the time: "It's outrageous to even make that connection between this deranged individual that committed this evil crime to the president, who had repeatedly condemned bigotry, racism, and has made it very clear that this is a terrorist attack."
Muslims worldwide have praised New Zealand's response to the massacre, with many singling out Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's gesture of wearing a headscarf to meet victims' families and urging the country to unite with the call: "We are one."
Grandi described the response by the people and leadership of New Zealand as "exemplary."
"Respond to these toxic trends in a firm and organized manner, restate the values that underpin the solidarity that we must provide to refugees and reaffirm ... that our societies will not be really prosperous stable and peaceful if they do not include all," he said. 
 (Reporting by Michelle Nichols; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the execution of a Buddhist inmate in Texas whose request that his spiritual adviser be present in the execution chamber had been denied.
In a brief, unsigned order, the court said that Texas may not execute the inmate, Patrick H. Murphy, “unless the state permits Murphy’s Buddhist spiritual adviser or another Buddhist reverend of the state’s choosing to accompany Murphy in the execution chamber during the execution.”
Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch said they would have allowed the execution to proceed.
In a concurring opinion, Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh wrote that the state’s policy of allowing only Christian and Muslim chaplains to attend executions amounted to unconstitutional religious discrimination. “The government may not discriminate against religion generally or against particular religious denominations,” he wrote.
“In this case,” he wrote, “the relevant Texas policy allows a Christian or Muslim inmate to have a state-employed Christian or Muslim religious adviser present either in the execution room or in the adjacent viewing room. But inmates of other religious denominations — for example, Buddhist inmates such as Murphy — who want their religious adviser to be present can have the religious adviser present only in the viewing room and not in the execution room itself for their executions.”
Justice Kavanaugh wrote that Texas may exclude advisers of all denominations from the execution chamber but may not allow only some to be present.
Mr. Murphy’s case was similar to one in February in which the court, by a 5-to-4 vote, allowed the execution of a Muslim inmate in Alabama who had asked that his imam be present. In Alabama, only a Christian chaplain employed by the prison was allowed in the execution chamber.
Mr. Murphy was sentenced to death for the 2000 murder of a police officer, Aubrey Hawkins. Mr. Murphy has been a Buddhist for about a decade, according to court papers, and his spiritual adviser, the Rev. Hui-Yong Shih, has ministered to him for the last six years.
In late February, Mr. Murphy’s lawyer asked prison officials to allow Mr. Shih to be present at the execution.
“Murphy’s faith teaches that, in order to enter into what he understands to be the ‘Pure Land,’ he must focus on the Buddha at the time of death, and Rev. Shih’s presence in the chamber would make that possible,” the lawyer, David R. Dow, wrote.
A prison official responded that only prison employees are allowed in the execution chamber, “which precludes Mr. Murphy’s spiritual adviser from being present.”
On Wednesday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that Mr. Murphy had waited too long to file suit. The prison policy was long established and public, the panel said in an unsigned opinion, making delays in challenging it “unacceptable under the circumstances.”
Texas officials said the state’s policy was based on security considerations. An untrained visitor to the execution chamber, they wrote, could succumb to “irrational and uncontrollable behavior or fainting” or start “pulling intravenous lines out of the inmate, taunting witnesses observing on behalf of the victim, causing disruption within the execution chamber or attempting to gain access to the execution team.”
The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty filed a supporting brief urging the justices to require prison officials to let Mr. Shih into the execution chamber. “The guidance of the soul at the moment of execution — the moment at which the knife falls — has for centuries been well recognized as a crucial moment of religious exercise calling for a minister’s guidance,” the brief said. “This court should recognize that our Constitution and civil rights laws support a right to that guidance.”
In the Alabama case, Dunn v. Ray, the majority, in an unsigned opinion, said that the inmate, Domineque Ray, had waited too long to object. Justice Elena Kagan, writing for the four-member liberal wing, said the majority was “profoundly wrong.”
Under Alabama’s policy, she wrote, “a Christian prisoner may have a minister of his own faith accompany him into the execution chamber to say his last rites.”
“But if an inmate practices a different religion — whether Islam, Judaism or any other — he may not die with a minister of his own faith by his side,” Justice Kagan wrote.
When a terrorist massacred 50 people at two New Zealand mosques last week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern immediately grasped the nettle. “I can tell you one thing right now,” she told a news conference. “Our gun laws will change.”
That’s what effective leadership looks like. New Zealand’s cabinet has now agreed in principle to overhaul those laws, experts are reviewing ways to make the country safer from firearms and, Ardern promised, “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism, we will have announced reforms.”
Contrast that with the United States, where just since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (1.45 million, including murders, suicides and accidents) than died in all the wars in American history (1.4 million). More Americans die from guns every 10 weeks than died in the entire Afghanistan and Iraq wars combined, yet we still don’t have gun safety rules as rigorous as New Zealand’s even before the mosques were attacked.
The N.R.A. (not to be confused with the vast majority of gun owners) will turn to its old smoke-and-mirrors standby, arguing that the killer’s hate, not his guns and bullets, were the real problem.
But while it’s true that white supremacy is deadly and needs to be confronted — something our vote-obsessed president blindly ignores — without the weapons of mass murder, 50 New Zealand worshipers would still be alive; 17 Parkland, Fla., schoolchildren and staff members would still be alive; nine Charleston, S.C., churchgoers would still be alive; 11 Pittsburgh congregants would still be alive; 58 Las Vegas concertgoers would still be alive; 26 Newtown, Conn., first graders and adults would. …
Why can’t leaders in America learn from experience, the way leaders in other countries do? After a massacre in Australia in 1996, the government there took far-reaching action to tighten gun policy. In contrast, every day in America, another hundred people die from gun violence and 300 more are injured — and our president and Congress do nothing.
[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]
In fairness, liberals have often been unhelpful, broadcasting their own ignorance about the firearms they propose to regulate, or speaking blithely of banning guns or of “gun control” in ways that drive responsible gun owners into the arms of the N.R.A. I suggest dropping references to “gun control” and instead speaking of “gun safety.”
It’s also true that there are no simple solutions. The U.S. now has more guns than people, so criminals have a steady supply — and so do ordinary Americans at a time when suicides are at a 30-year high.
But gun laws do make a difference. When Connecticut tightened licensing laws in 1995, firearm homicide rates dropped by 40 percent. And when Missouri eased gun laws in 2007, gun homicide rates surged by 25 percent.
Polls show some measures have broad backing. For starters, more than 90 percent even of gun owners support universal background checks to ensure that people are legally allowed to own a gun before they buy one.
Astonishingly, about 22 percent of guns in the U.S. are still acquired without a background check. In parts of the U.S., you need a more thorough background check to adopt a dog than to acquire a semiautomatic AR-15 weapon.
The House passed a bill last month to require universal background checks, but it has little chance in the Senate this year.
Another basic step: Keep guns out of the hands of people shown to present a danger to themselves or others, such as when they are suicidal or threatening a domestic partner. Fourteen states have such “red flag” laws, and similar legislation is before Congress to achieve something similar at a national level.
We should likewise invest more in “smart guns” that can be fired only by an authorized person; it’s outrageous that my phone requires a pin or fingerprint but that an AR-15 doesn’t. That would help with the estimated 200,000 guns stolen each year.
The regulatory model to follow is automobiles. We haven’t outlawed cars, but we have required safety modifications (seatbelts, airbags) and limited access to them (licenses, bans after drunken driving) in ways that have sharply reduced the fatality rate per miles driven.
If we took this approach to guns, many Americans would still die. But experts have suggested to me that we could plausibly reduce gun deaths by about one-third, saving 13,000 lives a year.
Slowly, the tide of public opinion is shifting. The N.R.A.’s extremism is turning some people off, and it seems on the defensive, so eventually we may follow New Zealand. But how many more people will die before the president and Congress act?
SAN FRANCISCO — With the growing recognition that prosecutors hold the keys to a fairer criminal justice system, the term “progressive prosecutor” has almost become trendy. This is how Senator Kamala Harris of California, a likely presidential candidate and a former prosecutor, describes herself.
But she’s not. 
Time after time, when progressives urged her to embrace criminal justice reforms as a district attorney and then the state’s attorney general, Ms. Harris opposed them or stayed silent. Most troubling, Ms. Harris fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions that had been secured through official misconduct that included evidence tampering, false testimony and the suppression of crucial information by prosecutors. 
Consider her record as San Francisco’s district attorney from 2004 to 2011. Ms. Harris was criticized in 2010 for withholding information about a police laboratory technician who had been accused of “intentionally sabotaging” her work and stealing drugs from the lab. After a memo surfaced showing that Ms. Harris’s deputies knew about the technician’s wrongdoing and recent conviction, but failed to alert defense lawyers, a judge condemned Ms. Harris’s indifference to the systemic violation of the defendants’ constitutional rights. 
Ms. Harris contested the ruling by arguing that the judge, whose husband was a defense attorney and had spoken publicly about the importance of disclosing evidence, had a conflict of interest. Ms. Harris lost. More than 600 cases handled by the corrupt technician were dismissed.
Ms. Harris also championed state legislation under which parents whose children were found to be habitually truant in elementary school could be prosecuted, despite concerns that it would disproportionately affect low-income people of color.
Ms. Harris was similarly regressive as the state’s attorney general. When a federal judge in Orange County ruled that the death penalty was unconstitutional in 2014, Ms. Harris appealed. In a public statement, she made the bizarre argument that the decision “undermines important protections that our courts provide to defendants.” (The approximately 740 men and women awaiting execution in California might disagree).
In 2014, she declined to take a position on Proposition 47, a ballot initiative approved by voters, that reduced certain low-level felonies to misdemeanors. She laughed that year when a reporter asked if she would support the legalization of marijuana for recreational use. Ms. Harris finally reversed course in 2018, long after public opinion had shifted on the topic.
In 2015, she opposed a bill requiring her office to investigate shootings involving officers. And she refused to support statewide standards regulating the use of body-worn cameras by police officers. For this, she incurred criticism from an array of left-leaning reformers, including Democratic state senators, the A.C.L.U. and San Francisco’s elected public defender. The activist Phelicia Jones, who had supported Ms. Harris for years, asked, “How many more people need to die before she steps in?”
Worst of all, though, is Ms. Harris’s record in wrongful conviction cases. Consider George Gage, an electrician with no criminal record who was charged in 1999 with sexually abusing his stepdaughter, who reported the allegations years later. The case largely hinged on the stepdaughter’s testimony and Mr. Gage was convicted.
Afterward, the judge discovered that the prosecutor had unlawfully held back potentially exculpatory evidence, including medical reports indicating that the stepdaughter had been repeatedly untruthful with law enforcement. Her mother even described her as “a pathological liar” who “lives her lies.” 
In 2015, when the case reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, Ms. Harris’s prosecutors defended the conviction. They pointed out that Mr. Gage, while forced to act as his own lawyer, had not properly raised the legal issue in the lower court, as the law required. 
The appellate judges acknowledged this impediment and sent the case to mediation, a clear signal for Ms. Harris to dismiss the case. When she refused to budge, the court upheld the conviction on that technicality. Mr. Gage is still in prison serving a 70-year sentence.
That case is not an outlier. Ms. Harris also fought to keep Daniel Larsen in prison on a 28-year-to-life sentence for possession of a concealed weapon even though his trial lawyer was incompetent and there was compelling evidence of his innocence.  Relying on a technicality again, Ms. Harris argued that Mr. Larsen failed to raise his legal arguments in a timely fashion. (This time, she lost.)
She also defended Johnny Baca’s conviction for murder even though judges found a prosecutor presented false testimony at the trial. She relented only after a video of the oral argument received national attention and embarrassed her office. 
And then there’s Kevin Cooper, the death row inmate whose trial was infected by racism and corruption. He sought advanced DNA testing to prove his innocence, but Ms. Harris opposed it. (After The New York Times’s exposé of the case went viral, she reversed her position.)
All this is a shame because the state’s top prosecutor has the power and the imperative to seek justice. In cases of tainted convictions, that means conceding error and overturning them. Rather than fulfilling that obligation, Ms. Harris turned legal technicalities into weapons so she could cement injustices. 
In “The Truths We Hold,” Ms. Harris’s recently published memoir, she writes: “America has a deep and dark history of people using the power of the prosecutor as an instrument of injustice.”
She adds, “I know this history well — of innocent men framed, of charges brought against people without sufficient evidence, of prosecutors hiding information that would exonerate defendants, of the disproportionate application of the law.”
All too often, she was on the wrong side of that history. 
It is true that politicians must make concessions to get the support of key interest groups. The fierce, collective opposition of law enforcement and local district attorney associations can be hard to overcome at the ballot box. But in her career, Ms. Harris did not barter or trade to get the support of more conservative law-and-order types; she gave it all away. 
Of course, the full picture is more complicated. During her tenure as district attorney, Ms. Harris refused to seek the death penalty in a case involving the murder of a police officer. And she started a successful program that offered first-time nonviolent offenders a chance to have their charges dismissed if they completed a rigorous vocational training. As attorney general, she mandated implicit bias training and was awarded for her work in correcting a backlog in the testing of rape kits. 
But if Kamala Harris wants people who care about dismantling mass incarceration and correcting miscarriages of justice to vote for her, she needs to radically break with her past. 
A good first step would be to apologize to the wrongfully convicted people she has fought to keep in prison and to do what she can to make sure they get justice. She should start with George Gage.
Carmine J. Persico, who emerged from gangland Brooklyn to become the unpredictable boss of one of the nation’s most powerful Mafia organizations in an era when the mob in New York was at the peak of its prosperity, died a prisoner on Thursday in North Carolina, where he was serving a 139-year sentence. He was 85.
His lawyer, Benson Weintraub, confirmed the death, at Duke University Medical Center in Durham. He said he did not know the cause. Mr. Persico had been incarcerated nearby at a federal prison in Butner, N.C.
Mr. Persico spent most of his adult life under indictment or in prison, and yet, even from behind bars, he managed to retain his status as the leader of a vast and violent criminal enterprise known as the Colombo family. Law-enforcement authorities believe that he had a strong hand in the assassinations of the mob bosses Albert Anastasia and Joey Gallo.
The son of a middle-class law firm stenographer, he began his criminal career as a teenage enforcer and hit man in South Brooklyn. His first arrest, at age 17, was for murder. But employing a keen intelligence, street-bred guile, an appetite for violence and a willingness to betray others, he quickly climbed the ladder to the top of the Colombo organization.
“He was the most fascinating figure I encountered in the world of organized crime,” said Edward A. McDonald, a former federal prosecutor who was in charge of a Justice Department unit that investigated the Mafia in the 1970s and ’80s. “Because of his reputation for intelligence and toughness, he was a legend by the age of 17, and later as a mob boss he became a folk hero in certain areas of Brooklyn.”
Mr. Persico’s penchant for double-crossing his mob allies earned him an underworld nickname that he detested, the Snake. It was a name that none of his confederates dared utter in his presence; they always addressed him by the more pleasant sounding but misleading appellation “Junior.”
Law-enforcement officials maintain that even when he was serving prison terms from the 1960s into the late ’90s, he remained a potent force in two bloody mob wars and in the running of the Colombo family’s network of criminal operations. During his tenure, his gang reaped millions of dollars a year in illegal payoffs from labor racketeering, gambling, loan-sharking and drug trafficking, mainly in the New York region.
Detectives, lawyers and underworld associates described Mr. Persico as a moody man who could be alternately charming and vicious. Lawyers remembered his ability to grasp complicated criminal law procedures and make acute strategy suggestions at his trials. In tranquil moments he delighted in tending to his garden and in preparing his favorite dish — pasta with a delicate mixture of olive oil and garlic — for friends and relatives.
But Mafia defectors and investigators, who listened to his conversations on electronic bugs and telephone taps, said he would become enraged over the slightest suspicion that other mobsters were cheating him. An informer who shared a prison cell with him testified that he had tried to hatch plots to murder prosecutors, including Rudolph W. Giuliani, and F.B.I. agents, all of whom he held responsible for his long prison sentences.
Mob turncoats said Mr. Persico had boasted that he had a hand in more than 20 murders, either as the actual killer or in ordering the slayings. He was once stopped from garroting Larry Gallo, an old underworld confederate turned foe, when a police officer happened to walk into a bar and found Mr. Gallo, unconscious, with a rope twisted around his neck.
At the height of his power, from the early 1960s to the mid-’80s, Mr. Persico, neatly attired in a suit and tie, roamed Brooklyn, particularly the Carroll Gardens, Red Hook, Park Slope and Bensonhurst sections. Slightly built at 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighing about 150 pounds, he was usually accompanied by his favorite sidekick and bodyguard, Hugh McIntosh, a 6-foot-4 mobster with a frame like a tree trunk.
When he was not in Brooklyn, Mr. Persico could usually be found on the Blue Mountain Manor Horse Farm, his 59-acre spread with a nine-bedroom house in Saugerties, N.Y., about 100 miles north of New York City. A police raid at the farm in 1972 uncovered a stockpile of about 50 rifles and shotguns and 40 bombs.
The extent of Mr. Persico’s influence and authority in the Mafia was exposed at a watershed federal trial in 1986 in Manhattan. He and the reputed bosses of the Genovese and Lucchese crime families were convicted of being members of the Commission, the select body that resolved major disputes and set policies for the five New York crime families: the Bonanno, Colombo, Gambino, Genovese and Lucchese factions.
At the trial, Mr. Persico, a high school dropout, decided to represent himself, and he won the praises of lawyers and judges for his acumen in questioning witnesses, writing legal briefs and raising points of law.
His unorthodox trial tactics failed, however, and he was convicted, along with Anthony Corallo, the accused boss of the Lucchese family, and Anthony Salerno, a high-ranking member of the Genovese family. Each man was sentenced to 100 years in prison without the possibility of parole after being found guilty of conspiracy to commit murders, racketeering and leading a criminal enterprise, the Commission.
The trial, which was known as the Commission case, disrupted the hierarchies of three crime families and weakened the Mafia’s ability to control New York’s construction industry through threats, extortion and rigged contracts. The case boosted the political career of Mr. Giuliani, who was then the United States attorney in Manhattan. His role in uprooting three entrenched mob emperors brought him national attention and helped him become mayor of New York in 1994.
Carmine John Persico was born on Aug. 8, 1933, and grew up in Park Slope and Red Hook, which were then heavily Italian-American and Irish-American blue-collar neighborhoods. Gangsters of his day typically came from impoverished backgrounds, but Mr. Persico’s upbringing was solidly middle class. His father, Carmine Sr., was a legal stenographer for Manhattan law firms, and his mother, Susan (Plantamura) Persico, was a strong-willed woman who tried to keep a tight rein on young Carmine; his older brother, Alphonse; his younger brother, Theodore; and a sister, Dolores.
But she was contending with a South Brooklyn of the 1940s that had become a bastion for organized crime. Neighborhood youths were attracted to the flashy, tough-talking gangsters with big bankrolls who hung out at the storefront clubs that they used as meeting places. The Persico brothers were no exception. Alphonse and Theodore enlisted in the Mafia’s ranks at early ages, according to court records.
Carmine dropped out of high school at 16 and became known to the police as the leader of the Garfield Boys, a street gang that brandished knives, clubs and zip guns — primitive single-round weapons often secretly constructed in high school shops — in battles with rival gangs and in extorting money from teenagers.
In March 1951, when Carmine was 17, he was arrested for the fatal beating of another youth during a brawl in Prospect Park. It was his first serious encounter with the law, and when the charges against him were dropped, his reputation for boldness and cunning was enhanced.
“He was only a teenager and small in size, but people took notice of him and began to fear him,” Mr. McDonald, the former prosecutor, said.
At 18, Mr. Persico was working for Frank (Frankie Shots) Abbatemarco, the head of a crew in a Mafia group then known as the Profaci family. Joseph Profaci was the boss, or godfather, of the organization, which evolved into the Colombo family and became one of the original five New York mob families established by the Mafia in 1931.
The Abbatemarco crew specialized in illegal sports and numbers gambling, loan-sharking, burglaries and truck cargo hijackings. According to police intelligence reports, Mr. Persico advanced swiftly as a trusted, hardened member of the crew. He was “made,” or formally inducted as a soldier into the Mafia, at 21 — an unusually early age to be recognized by mob leaders.
In the mid-1950s, police intelligence reports asserted that Mr. Persico was involved in gambling and hijacking enterprises with Joseph (Crazy Joey) Gallo and his brothers Larry and Albert, all members of the Profaci family.
Mr. Persico, who ultimately would be indicted in 25 separate cases, compiled more than a dozen arrests in the 1950s and early ′’60s. The accusations included involvement in numbers betting, running dice games, loan-sharking, assault, burglary, attempted rape, hijacking, possession of an unregistered gun and harassing a police officer.
Most of the felony charges were dropped or reduced to misdemeanors when the complainants and witnesses refused to testify or disappeared. As a result, Mr. Persico never spent more than a day or two in jail in those years; most cases ended with his paying insignificant fines.
His reputation for violent audacity increased after the murder on Oct. 25, 1957, of Albert Anastasia, the feared boss of the mob organization that was later called the Gambino family. Federal and city investigators suspected that Mr. Persico and the Gallo brothers were members of the assassination team later called “the Barbershop Quintet,” so named because Mr. Anastasia was shot dead while he was being shaved in a hotel’s barber shop in Midtown Manhattan.
According to underworld informers, the murder was initiated by Carlo Gambino, who was Mr. Anastasia’s underboss, and sanctioned by Mr. Profaci and other Mafia bosses who feared that Mr. Anastasia was trying to become the nation’s dominant mob leader. No arrests for the murder were ever made, but in a sentencing memorandum about Mr. Persico in 1986, federal prosecutors said he had admitted to a relative, “I killed Anastasia.”
A turning point in Mr. Persico’s career came in 1959, after Frank Abbatemarco, the head of his crew, was murdered. Mr. Persico and the Gallo brothers expected that Mr. Profaci would hand over Mr. Abbatemarco’s illegal enterprises to them. Instead, Mr. Profaci planned to give the rackets to an older mobster. Before he could, an infuriated Mr. Persico, who was also heard to complain that Mr. Profaci had extracted too large a share of his loot, decided to act.
In retaliation, organized-crime investigators said, Mr. Persico and the Gallo brothers kidnapped six of Mr. Profaci’s lieutenants and demanded a larger slice of the family’s profits. Mr. Profaci agreed to the terms, and the hostages were released. But Mr. Profaci reneged on the deal after persuading Mr. Persico to rejoin him, promising him more power and money if he eliminated the Gallo brothers.
Full-fledged war erupted in 1960 between the Profaci and Gallo factions and led to 12 murders and the wounding of 15 gangsters, including Mr. Persico.
On Aug. 20, 1961, a police sergeant walked into the Sahara Club, a bar in Brooklyn, and interrupted two men in the act of strangling Larry Gallo with a rope. The attackers rushed outside and fled. Police informers reported that Mr. Persico had lured Mr. Gallo to the bar on the pretext that he intended to switch sides once again and rejoin the Gallos.
Mr. Persico was identified by police officers as one of the assailants, but Mr. Gallo refused to testify, and the assault charges were dismissed.
On May 19, 1963, Mr. Persico was driving in South Brooklyn when he became the target of gunfire from a passing truck. He was struck in his left hand and arm and never regained the full use of that hand.
The war between the Profacis and the Gallos ended in late 1963 after the death, from natural causes, of Joseph Profaci. Carlo Gambino and other Mafia leaders imposed an uneasy truce between the factions and installed Joseph A. Colombo Sr. as the boss of the old Profaci family.
Mr. Persico became enmeshed in criminal trials in the 1960s. He was indicted in Brooklyn on federal charges of being the ringleader in the 1959 hijacking of a $50,000 cargo of linen from a truck. Four trials ended in two mistrials and the overturning of two convictions on appeal.
At a fifth trial, in 1969, Mr. Persico was again convicted. Free on bail pending an appeal in the federal courts, he was back in court in Manhattan in 1971 on a separate state indictment that accused him of being the head of a multimillion-dollar loan-sharking operation.
Mr. Persico was acquitted on the loan-sharking charges in a trial that was closed to the press and public by the presiding judge, State Supreme Court Justice George Postel. The judge ruled that newspaper articles about Mr. Persico’s Mafia links could unfairly influence the jury and granted a defense motion to exclude reporters from the courtroom. Justice Postel was later admonished by an appeals court for violating news organizations’ constitutional rights to report on the trial.
On June 28, 1971, in a spasm of violence that shocked New York, Joseph Colombo, the boss of Mr. Persico’s crime family, was shot in the head and paralyzed during an Italian-American civil-rights rally that he had organized in Columbus Circle in Manhattan. The shooting in front of thousands of spectators left Mr. Colombo unable to speak or communicate; he died in 1978. The man who shot him was himself gunned down almost immediately and died before he could be questioned.
After Mr. Colombo was incapacitated, Mr. Persico took control of the Colombo family even though his appeals on his conviction in the hijacking case had been rejected. On April 7, 1972, shortly before Mr. Persico’s imprisonment began, his archrival Joey Gallo was shot down while celebrating his birthday at a late-night meal at Umberto’s Clam House in Little Italy.
Mr. Gallo, like Mr. Colombo, was a flamboyant figure around New York, and his murder stunned the city. No arrests were made, but prosecutors, in their sentencing reports concerning Mr. Persico in 1986, said he had engineered Mr. Gallo’s murder after concluding that Mr. Gallo had orchestrated the shooting of Mr. Colombo.
While serving his first prison sentence, Mr. Persico maintained his status as a boss, relaying his orders through relatives and trusted confederates who visited him. He was released in 1979, but in 1981 he was returned to prison for three more years for parole violations and for conspiracy to bribe an Internal Revenue Service agent for confidential information about organized-crime investigations.
Again, despite being a prison inmate hundreds of miles from New York, he continued to rule the Colombo gang, relaying vital decisions through surrogates. Released from prison in March 1984, he went into hiding after learning through a law-enforcement informant that the federal authorities intended to indict him anew for murder and racketeering.
Mr. Persico was placed on the F.B.I.’s 10 Most Wanted list, and after being a fugitive for three months, he was arrested in February 1985 at the home of a cousin in Wantagh, on Long Island. The cousin’s husband, Fred DeChristopher, collected a $50,000 reward for telling the F.B.I. where Mr. Persico was hiding out.
In June 1986, Mr. Persico was found guilty in Manhattan on charges that he was the leader of the Colombo family, which controlled union locals representing restaurant, concrete and cement workers, and that he had extorted millions of dollars from unions and construction companies in New York City.
Aaron R. Marcu, a former federal prosecutor, remembered that Mr. Persico’s command of the courtroom was made evident by the frequent times that defense lawyers looked at him for approval before making decisions on such matters as scheduling sessions or whether to challenge the introduction of prosecution evidence.
“Mr. Persico, you are a tragedy,” John F. Keenan, a Federal District Court judge, said in sentencing him to 39 years in prison. “You are one of the most intelligent people I have ever seen in my life.”
Eight other defendants, including Mr. Persico’s son Alphonse, whom prosecutors identified as a member of the top echelon of the Colombo gang, were also convicted on racketeering charges.
Three months later, Carmine Persico went on trial in Manhattan on new federal racketeering charges that he was a prominent member of the Commission, the Mafia’s version of an underworld board of directors. This time he decided to be his own defense lawyer.
Lawyers and prosecutors speculated that Mr. Persico’s strategy was to charm the jury. The prosecution’s case hinged on tapes, surveillance and the testimony of self-described “made” Mafia soldiers and associates. In his opening and closing statements and in his cross-examining of witnesses, Mr. Persico questioned the validity of the government’s evidence without having to testify himself, which would have subjected him to cross-examination.
Instead of appearing as an eloquent lawyer, Mr. Persico sounded more like an ordinary man appealing for sympathy. His performance was Runyonesque as he tried to make legal points in a Brooklyn accent, using phrases like “I sez” and “you seen” and “dem kids.”
Unswayed by Mr. Persico’s tactics, the jury found him guilty along with the two other mob bosses. He was sentenced to 100 years in prison, raising his combined sentences for the Commission and Colombo family convictions to 139 years.
In 1998, Michael Lloyd, a convicted bank robber who was a government informer, testified that Mr. Persico had told him while they were together in prison that he had authorized “contracts” to kill two F.B.I. agents as well as Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Marcu, blaming them for his prison terms. Mr. Lloyd’s statement was made at a parole hearing in which prosecutors confirmed that he had been an undercover informer in the late 1980s and early ’90s.
Federal law-enforcement officials said they had decided not to bring murder conspiracy charges against Mr. Persico because he was already serving a life term; they had also wanted to protect Mr. Lloyd from exposure while Mr. Persico unwittingly provided him with valuable information about the Colombo family, the officials said.
Although the two convictions left Mr. Persico with no hope of release, he refused to step down as the Colombo boss. Under Mafia tradition, a boss can be removed only by death or abdication. Organized-crime experts said that Mr. Persico wanted to retain his title and power until he could hand over the leadership to his son Alphonse, known as Little Allie Boy. Alphonse Persico was imprisoned from 1986 to 1993 after his conviction in the Colombo family racketeering case.
To safeguard his son’s succession, Carmine Persico appointed Victor J. Orena, a Colombo capo, or captain, as acting boss. But Mr. Persico apparently misjudged Mr. Orena’s willingness to obey him.
In 1991, Mr. Orena tried to assume permanent control of the Colombo family as its new boss. Investigators said that Mr. Persico, confined at the Federal Penitentiary in Lompoc, Calif., directed his loyalists to eliminate Mr. Orena and his supporters.
Mr. Persico’s decision ignited another mob war in New York, this one between the Persico and Orena partisans. Before the guns were lowered in 1993, at least 10 gangsters and a bystander had been killed. The war led to a spate of defections by Colombo soldiers and associates and to the convictions of a dozen Colombo gangsters, among them Mr. Orena. He was convicted in 1992 of murder and racketeering and sentenced to life in prison.
An armistice was arranged in the mid-’90s with a Persico loyalist, Joseph (Jo-Jo) Russo, who was also Mr. Persico’s cousin, installed as acting boss. But by that time the Colombo crime family was considerably weaker. Its ranks of active soldiers and capos had been thinned by convictions and defections, and the organization was damaged by the ability of the government to blunt its gambling and loan-sharking operations and loosen its hold on construction and restaurant workers’ unions.
There was satisfaction among law-enforcement officials at the fact that the Snake’s gang had been further enfeebled by the willingness of members and associates to inform on their comrades.
Mr. Persico’s son Alphonse pleaded guilty in 2000 to gun possession charges in Florida and was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison. He was convicted in 2009 of engineering a murder and is currently serving a sentence of life without parole.
In addition to Alphonse, Mr. Persico and his wife, Joyce (Smoldone) Persico, had two other sons, Michael and Lawrence, and a daughter, Barbara Persico Piazza. His lawyer, Mr. Weintraub, said Mr. Persico was survived by his wife, two children and 15 grandchildren. He would not identify the children. Mr. Persico’s brother Alphonse died of cancer in 1989 while serving a prison term.
At his last trial in the Commission case, Mr. Persico tried to explain his life and principles in a summation to the jury. Acknowledging that he had served time in prison and that he had gone into hiding to evade a trial, he said, “Maybe I was tired of going back and forth to jail, tired of being pulled into courtrooms and tried on my name and reputation.”
Insisting that he had been persecuted and unjustly prosecuted as a Mafia kingpin, he added plaintively, “When does it end, when does it stop, when do they leave you alone?”
MANILA, Philippines — An Indonesian hostage held by Muslim militants in the southern Philippines swam his way to freedom but another drowned, and a Malaysian was shot in the back while escaping, officials said Saturday.
The two Indonesians and the Malaysian separately escaped while Philippine marines were attempting to rescue them on Simusa island in southern Sulu province over the last two days, said regional military spokesman Lt. Col. Gerry Besana.
The dramatic escapes leave at least three more hostages in the custody of the Abu Sayyaf, which is blacklisted by the United States and the Philippines as a terrorist organization due to its brutal history of bombings, ransom kidnappings, extortion and beheadings. The remaining captives include a Dutch bird watcher, Elwold Horn, who was kidnapped by the militants in 2012, and two Filipinos.
One of the Indonesians, Heri Ardiansyah, was plucked from the waters by marines on board a gunboat while they recovered the body of his companion, Hariadin, who drowned. The marines gunned down three Abu Sayyaf captors who were trying to chase the two Indonesians at sea, military officials said. Like many Indonesians, Hariadin used just one name.
The marines seized four assault rifles, a grenade launcher and various ammunition from the captors of the Indonesians, military officials said.
The Malaysian, who was identified by the military as Jari Bin Abudullah, was shot by the militants when he ran away Thursday as marines tried to rescue him and engaged his captors in a gunbattle. Government forces surrounded Simusa island, where a small community thrives near mangroves, to hunt down the remaining Abu Sayyaf gunmen.
"The act of shooting the kidnap victim is indicative of the Abu Sayyaf's hopelessness and desperateness as the militants are now surrounded by our pursuing troops," said Sulu's military commander, Brig. Gen. Divino Rey Pabayo Jr.
The Malaysian was airlifted to Zamboanga city, where he was in critical condition in a hospital, military officials said.
The three hostages were kidnapped off Malaysia's Sabah state on Borneo island in December last year and taken by speedboat to Sulu, the predominantly Muslim and poverty-wracked province where a few hundred Abu Sayyaf have survived in the jungles despite frequent military offensives.
Army troops on Friday clashed with about 80 Abu Sayyaf gunmen in Sulu's mountainous Patikul town in a fierce but brief gunbattle that left three soldiers and four militants dead and several wounded on both sides, the military said.
The Islamic State group issued a statement confirming it killed three and wounded 13 Philippine soldiers, but it said "the mujahideen returned safely to base."
The rebels belong to an Abu Sayyaf faction led by commander Hajan Sawadjaan and aligned with the Islamic State group. Sawadjaan is the main suspect in the bombing of a Roman Catholic cathedral during a Mass that killed 23 mostly churchgoers and two suspected suicide attackers on Jan. 27 in Sulu's capital town of Jolo.
___
Associated Press writer Maamoun Youssef in Cairo contributed to this report.
LOS ANGELES — Rapper Nipsey Hussle will be mourned at a public memorial Thursday at Staples Center in Los Angeles.
The website for the 21,000-seat downtown arena says tickets will go on sale at 10 a.m. Tuesday for the event that organizers are calling Nipsey Hussle's Celebration of Life.
The memorial begins at 10 a.m. Thursday. No details were given about who may be appearing, performing or speaking.
Hussle, a 33-year-old father of two and a hip-hop artist as beloved for his work in his community as his music, was fatally shot March 31 while standing outside his South Los Angeles clothing store.
Two days later, police arrested Eric R. Holder Jr. in the killing and on Thursday prosecutors charged him with murder. Holder has pleaded not guilty.
LOS ANGELES — Four California district attorneys have jointly agreed to seek the death penalty if they win a conviction of an ex-policeman charged with 13 counts of murder attributed to a serial predator dubbed the "Golden State Killer," prosecutors said on Wednesday.
The decision, disclosed during a court hearing for the suspect, Joseph James DeAngelo, 73, put the prosecutors at odds with a statewide moratorium on capital punishment declared last month by Governor Gavin Newsom. 
DeAngelo was arrested in April 2018, capping more than 40 years of investigation in a case that authorities said was finally solved by DNA evidence. The breakthrough came about two months after the case gained renewed national attention in the bestselling book: "I'll Be Gone in the Dark."
Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert called it "probably the most notorious" series of rapes and killings in California history, a crime spree spanning 11 years from 1975 to 1986 across multiple jurisdictions.
The defendant was an officer in two small-town California police departments during the 1970s.
Schubert and her counterparts from Santa Barbara, Ventura and Orange counties "unanimously concluded to seek the death penalty in this case," her office said in a statement after Wednesday's hearing.
DeAngelo is charged with 13 counts each of murder and kidnapping. Twelve murder counts accompany "special circumstance allegations" - such as rape of the victim - that make him eligible for capital punishment, the prosecutors said. The 13th murder count, in Tulare County, does not.
In all, authorities have said DeAngelo is suspected of dozens of rapes and more than 120 burglaries in and around Sacramento, the eastern San Francisco Bay area and Southern California.
Four weeks ago, Newsom, a Democrat, said he was imposing an indefinite moratorium on executions for any of the 737 inmates now on death row, the most of any state.
Newsom said he took the action in part because he was deeply troubled by the possibility of putting an innocent person to death as the state moved to toward resumption of executions after developing a new protocol for lethal injections.
The governor, whose moratorium angered victims' rights advocates, has since said he was considering a ban on future death sentences. California last carried out an execution in 2006.
Voters passed a 2016 ballot measure aimed at speeding up the process, but that initiative has failed to work, critics say, largely because it lacked additional funding needed to implement necessary reforms. 
 (Reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by Peter Cooney)
THE CLUB By Takis Würger
There is a type of entertainment that wants to have it both ways: to feed off its audience’s lurid interest in rape and murder and torture, but also to present itself as performing a socially important function, as if it were an earnest and necessary exposé about the unfortunate prevalence of rape and murder and torture.
The television show “Law & Order: SVU” is a good example. Its characters teem with righteous outrage and constantly pontificate and philosophize, creating a moral backdrop that lets viewers partake of the show’s gruesome subject matter without feeling dirty. Stieg Larsson employed the same formula in his novel “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” evoking the torture of women as often and as cannily as he did the sensitive male hero’s commitment to feminism.
Now, “The Club,” a German novel that has just been translated to English, attempts a similar alchemy, albeit in a more highbrow package. The debut of Takis Würger, a journalist at the newsmagazine Der Spiegel, the novel was a runaway best seller in Germany.
The book follows a lonely German teenager whose aunt finagles him a scholarship to attend Cambridge, where she teaches. There is a catch, however. He must enroll under a false name and infiltrate a secretive elite club to solve a mystery. Although she is vague about the particulars, we soon get intimations that the club’s decadent parties may involve violence against women.
The gritty subject matter is juxtaposed against a prose style we tend to associate with a different kind of novel — it reads more like a coming-of-age story than a thriller. Würger’s writing is mannered; it often has an otherworldly, fable-like quality. On the first page, we learn that a couple has moved to a house in a forest “so the wife could die in peace.” She has cancer. Instead of dying, she gets pregnant. “She gave birth,” the narrator says, “to a small, scrawny infant with delicate limbs and a full head of black hair. The man and the woman planted a cherry tree behind the house and named their son Hans. That was me.”
Würger avoids most references to contemporary life — if Hans had a television growing up, we don’t know it — and there is a Gothic quality to the series of misfortunes he heaps upon his young hero: friendlessness; the deaths of both parents within six months when he is in high school; the aunt, his sole living relative, who is so cold to him as to be sociopathic (something inadequately explained by her own struggle with depression). Before she decides to enlist him in crime-solving, she simply ignores him, sending him, after his parents’ deaths, to a Jesuit boarding school, an institution replete with “towers and crenelated walls.” He has only one pleasure: boxing. He and the school’s cook spar in the basement.
The self-conscious bleakness and attempts at timelessness can seem a little forced, as if they are mostly intended to give the impression of depth and to distinguish the book from more commercial novels. Here, for example, is what Hans brought with him to boarding school: “five pairs of trousers and five shirts, underwear, socks, one of my father’s woolen jerseys, my mother’s necklace, a hat, a twig from the cherry tree” — the one his parents planted after his birth — “my brown diary with the unlined pages and the black cowhide boxing gloves.” No phone or laptop, apparently. It is simply not believable, as a depiction of a middle-class teenager.
In this context, Hans’s occasional references to something specific and contemporary not only stand out — they seem to have a force that we usually associate with more powerful or original observations. When he arrives at Cambridge, for example, he notices a lot of students take Ritalin “to cope with the pressure.” “There were,” he says, “indeed some geniuses among the students, but the majority just worked really hard.”
As unremarkable as this thought would be in another novel, here it is almost a thrill to be reminded that Hans shares space with students who behave in socially recognizable ways. That distinguishes them from his aunt, who, at Cambridge, offers him almost no hospitality and speaks to him mostly in riddles — prodding him to find out what depravities the moneyed members of the Pitt Club are up to without ever explaining her own motives. (Nor does she acknowledge that what she wants of Hans is kind of a big ask and that she probably ought to be a little grateful for his acquiescence.)
The other person at Cambridge who knows what Hans is up to is a posh young woman named Charlotte, a student of his aunt’s. His aunt has persuaded Charlotte to use her pedigree and connections to help Hans get accepted into the Pitt Club, but Charlotte isn’t very nice to him either. Mostly she just berates him for his social failures.
Poor, sad, put-upon Hans just can’t get a break. Of course, piling it on in this way performs a function. We readers can’t help becoming invested in the guy, to root for him. We aren’t monsters, after all. We can’t help wanting him to make friends, to get the posh young woman (of course he falls for Charlotte — of course he does), to win the big boxing match against Oxford, to be asked to join the exclusive club (never mind that we know something sinister is afoot in its ranks).
So, an underdog in a dazzling social setting and a mystery to solve — one that happens to involve attending parties full of scantily clad and strangely accommodating young women? Combine those elements with a prose style that is literary — or rather “literary” — without being difficult, and an undeniably true social message (that rape is very bad, and so are old-boy networks that perpetuate it in ritualistic form), and it seems as if “The Club” is almost ingeniously designed for success: a guilty pleasure, but one we can leave sitting out on our coffee tables without a whiff of embarrassment.
I, for one, ate it up in a day and a half. So what if it lacks any character as memorable as “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo”’s Lisbeth Salander or even “Law & Order: SVU”’s Olivia Benson, or that it feels more like a series of carefully deployed literary techniques and plot devices than a novel with something real and idiosyncratic it wants to tell us? With some books, those types of complaints are beside the point.
As dozens of women stepped forward in fall 2017 with accusations that Harvey Weinstein had sexually assaulted them, the writer and director Taylor Sheridan made several demands of Weinstein’s doomed company: No longer distribute his latest feature, “Wind River,” starring Jeremy Renner and Elizabeth Olsen, about a murdered Indigenous woman on a reservation in Wyoming, and also strip all traces of the company’s name from the film. And donate future profits from the film to the National Indigenous Women’s Resource Center.
The Weinstein executives agreed.
For the center, which is run out of a woodstove-heated bungalow in snow-swept Lame Deer, Mont., this was a potentially huge boon. The nonprofit addresses violence against Native American women, runs a national helpline for domestic violence survivors, and provides assistance to tribes and tribal programs across the country. The royalties could amount to $6 million, more than twice its annual budget.
But in 2018, the Weinstein Company declared bankruptcy, and Lantern Entertainment acquired its film and television assets for $289 million. Now the center is unlikely to ever see a penny of the film profits promised to it.
Matthew George, a producer of “Wind River” through his production company, Acacia Entertainment, said the bankruptcy sale meant that Lantern Entertainment probably would not recognize the agreement the Weinstein Company made to donate profits to the center.
“To Taylor’s credit, he was doing the right thing, and forced these guys to do the right thing,” George said. “But then the company went bankrupt, and it became a moot point.”
Lucy Rain Simpson, the center’s executive director, said in a phone interview that people in her field had asked, “What are you doing with all that money?” But Simpson said, “We haven’t gotten a huge influx of cash. We haven’t gotten anything from the royalties at all.”
According to Sheridan’s management team, the filmmaker was traveling and could not be reached for an interview. They said he has had no contact with Lantern Entertainment, whose executives declined to comment for this article.
That company has been fighting off efforts by several stars — among them, Meryl Streep, Julia Roberts, Bradley Cooper, Robert De Niro and Jennifer Lawrence — to collect unpaid royalties from movies they made with Weinstein. In January, a bankruptcy court judge ruled that Lantern was not liable for payments owed to Bruce Cohen, who produced “Silver Linings Playbook.”
Sheridan has long professed deep interest in Native American culture and causes. Simpson said she did not know the writer-director before the profit-sharing agreement he reached with the Weinstein Company in 2017, but since then, he has been what she described as “a really strong non-native ally to us and to this work.”
Sheridan gave the keynote speech at a conference the center held in Albuquerque last summer, and collects donations for the organization on the set of his television series, “Yellowstone,” starring Kevin Costner and Josh Lucas. A member of his management team said Sheridan is also the executive producer of a documentary about a young lesbian Indigenous woman, and is donating his producing fee to the center.
Released in August 2017, “Wind River” was the first feature Sheridan directed and wrote. It received laudatory reviews mixed with criticism that it had a “white savior” narrative: Olsen’s F.B.I. agent, with the help of Renner’s federal wildlife officer, is trying to solve a young native woman’s rape and killing. The film, made for a reported budget of $11 million, earned $33.8 million in ticket sales, according to the industry-tracking site BoxOfficeMojo.com.
George, the producer, said roughly half of that money went to the theatrical exhibitors, with most of the rest eaten up by print and advertisement costs. He also said that neither he nor Sheridan had received profits from the film. While the royalties allocated for the center would have kicked in further down the line, through fees from streaming services, home video and pay television, the center would probably have seen $1 million within 18 months of the agreement, with an estimated additional $3 million to $5 million allocated in years to come.
Simpson said she and the center’s staff members never made concrete plans about what to do with the money.
“We didn’t want to get too ahead of ourselves, and get disappointed,” she said. But they had hoped to engage in more policy work and grass-roots efforts on behalf of missing and murdered indigenous women.
“There is so much work to be done,” she said, “We just would like to be able to move forward.”
OTTAWA — A Toronto landscaper pleaded guilty to eight murders on Tuesday in a case that traumatized the gay community in Canada’s largest city.
The landscaper, Bruce McArthur, 67, was arrested a year ago and initially charged with killing six men, dismembering them and hiding the pieces in planters on the property of a client who allowed him to store tools there.
Additional remains were later uncovered in a ravine behind the house where he had transformed planters into graves.
A limited amount of new information about the killings was presented in court on Tuesday. Michael Cantlon, a prosecutor, said Mr. McArthur planned all of the murders, held some of his victims captive and killed others while also sexually assaulting them.
Mr. McArthur kept pieces of his victims’ property, like jewelry and diaries, as souvenirs after killing them.
Speaking outside the downtown Toronto courthouse after the court hearing, the police involved in the investigation declined to speak about the killer’s motive.
“I don’t know if we’ll ever know why,” Det. David Dickinson of the homicide squad told reporters.
Mr. McArthur’s case opened a rift between Toronto’s police force and many members of the city’s gay community.
For about eight years, activists say, the police were uninterested in vigorously pursuing missing persons cases involving gay men or members of minority groups in and around a strip of Church Street lined with business catering to gays, and dismissed fears that a serial killer was at work.
Six of the victims were of South Asian or Middle Eastern descent.
A retired judge is now examining how the Toronto police handle missing persons reports, although she is not reviewing the actions of the police in the McArthur investigation.
The ill will has brought relations between Toronto’s gay community and the police to a low not seen since 1981, when the force staged raids of four bathhouses and arrested more than 300 men, then the largest mass arrest in the city’s history.
Most of the people charged then were subjected to taunts by police officers about their sexuality.
Ultimately, a majority of the people charged were acquitted. Large protests followed the raids, and the incident has come to be seen as a pivotal moment in Canada’s gay rights movement.
Mr. McArthur pleaded guilty to the first-degree murders of Skandaraj Navaratnam, Abdulbasir Faizi, Andrew Kinsman, Majeed Kayhan, Soroush Mahmudi, Kirushna Kumar Kanagaratnam, Dean Lisowick and Selim Esen.
All of his victims vanished between 2010 and 2017.
Mr. McArthur’s sentencing was scheduled for Feb. 4. At least two dozen people are expected to read statements about how their lives have been affected by the killings.
Under Canadian law, the maximum sentence for first-degree murder is life in prison with no chance of parole for 25 years.
Accounting for time served while awaiting trial, Justice John McMahon of the Ontario Superior Court told Mr. McArthur that he would be at least 91 years old before he could apply for parole.
Since 2011, judges have been allowed to impose consecutive sentences in mass murder cases. In Mr. McArthur’s case, that would mean he would certainly die in prison, since he could not apply for parole for 200 years.
Haran Vijayanathan, executive director of the Alliance for South Asian AIDS Prevention, said after attending the hearing that he was relieved that Mr. McArthur had spared the victims’ family members and friends from having to endure what would have most likely been a long trial.
And while he praised the efforts of investigators who finally tracked down Mr. McArthur, he said it now has become important to determine why it took so long.
“We want to figure out where the ball was dropped in this investigation,” he said. “I think there certainly is an awareness happening within the police about their shortcomings.”
In the 1990s, Mr. McArthur, a married father of two, left his wife in Oshawa, Ontario, and moved to Toronto, where he became a figure on the Church Street scene.
In 2003, Mr. McArthur was given a conditional sentence for attacking a man with a metal pipe. He was then barred by the court from the Church Street area.
Karen Fraser, whose planters were used by Mr. McArthur to cover up his killings, told reporters after the hearing that since the arrest, she and her partner, Ron Smith, had come to think of the killer as two people: “Bruce A and Bruce B.”
She described the A version as a man filled with enthusiasm who was devoted to his children and grandchildren. “Bruce B, who was that?” she asked. “I don’t know.”
She added, “I’m told he’s not mentally ill, but to me he’s evil.”
KAMPALA — Uganda has arrested eight local people suspected of involvement in the kidnap of an American tourist and her guide last week, the government said on Wednesday.
Kimberley Sue Endecott, 35, and local guide Jean Paul Mirenge-Remezo were ambushed and seized by gunmen as they drove in Queen Elizabeth National Park in southwest Uganda on April 2.
The kidnappers demanded a ransom of $500,000 and the pair were released six days later.
Confirming the arrests on a government Twitter account, spokesman Ofwono Opondo said he hoped they would help break a larger criminal network in Uganda and neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo. Ugandan police had announced arrests on Tuesday, but not given the number. 
The firm that organised Endecott's safari said she and her guide were released after a "negotiated settlement" and a Ugandan official also said a ransom was paid. 
But Opondo contradicted that. 
"The policy of the (government of Uganda) is that we don't pay ransom. What you have been hearing is just rumour-mongering," he said.
Given the importance of income from tourism, President Yoweri Museveni's government was eager to solve the case and restore a feeling of safety in national parks.
In 1999, an American couple, four Britons and two New Zealanders were killed along with four guides after being ambushed by gunmen in the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park. 
 (Reporting by Elias Biryabarema; Editing by George Obulutsa and Andrew Cawthorne)
The Archdiocese of Los Angeles has paid $8 million to a teenager who was sexually abused and later kidnapped by a teacher at her Catholic high school in 2016, her lawyer said Tuesday.
The case has drawn attention to the problem of sex abuse at Catholic institutions that is committed by church employees who are not clergy members.
Dave Ring, a lawyer for the victim, and advocates for abuse survivors said the settlement was believed to be the largest amount paid to a single victim by the archdiocese, which has paid hundreds of millions of dollars to abuse survivors in recent years.
“I think the archdiocese has tended to settle cases for larger amounts when priests are involved,” Mr. Ring said on Tuesday. “In this particular case, the fact that it is a lay person and a coach and an athletic director, I think they are starting to realize that even lay people who may not hold a super important position in the church can still wreak havoc on a young person’s life, just as much as a priest can.”
Adrian M. Alarcon, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese, declined Tuesday to confirm the price of the settlement. But she said that a $660 million settlement reached in 2007 with 508 abuse victims included sizable awards to “certain individuals,” although the church did not decide how that money was distributed.
“The Archdiocese recognizes that there was serious harm done to the life of the victim-survivor,” the archdiocese said in a statement. “We hope that the settlement will allow her to heal and move forward with her education and lifetime goals. The Archdiocese apologizes for the impact that this caused in her life.”
The victim has not been publicly identified. She was 15 years old when she was sexually abused by Ivan Barajas, the athletic director and health teacher at San Gabriel Mission High School in San Gabriel, Calif., a parish school owned and operated by the archdiocese, according to court documents in a lawsuit filed in 2017. He was also her volleyball coach.
After kidnapping the girl and being captured by the police in Nevada, Mr. Barajas, 39, pleaded guilty to felony unlawful sex with a minor. He is serving a three-year sentence at Lovelock Correctional Center in Nevada and will then serve a second three-year sentence in California.
Mr. Barajas began sexually abusing the girl in his office on school grounds in April 2016, Mr. Ring said. He also sexually abused her in the library, the faculty lounge and the gym, according to court documents. The victim is now 18 years old.
According to court documents, in the months before Mr. Barajas began abusing the student, several people — including parents and faculty members — expressed their concern about him to school and archdiocese officials. But those officials declined to take meaningful action.
During the 2014-15 school year, a volleyball coach told administrators he was concerned about Mr. Barajas’s interactions with female students.
More people complained about Mr. Barajas during the 2015-16 school year, including a parent and a second volleyball coach who eventually shared his concerns with Msgr. Sal Pilato, the superintendent of high schools for the Archdiocese of Los Angeles.
Mr. Ring said another parent sent school officials an anonymous letter expressing their concern about Mr. Barajas. The Los Angeles Times reported on Tuesday that one letter, sent to Monsignor Pilato, said, “He takes the ones he likes to the office.”
“Every act of abuse took place on campus in a really small school when the guy was already under suspicion and they already had complaints about him,” Mr. Ring said. “The archdiocese says it has all these policies and procedures and training in place from the priest abuse scandal. Well, where was it in this case?”
The school did not respond to messages seeking comment on Tuesday night.
During the course of the monthslong abuse, Mr. Barajas sent the teenage girl sexually charged text messages and pictures on his cellphone, which he used to record video of himself abusing her, according to court documents.
He kidnapped the girl after his wife discovered evidence of the abuse on his cellphone and confronted him about it in July 2016. He fled California and took the student to Nevada, where they spent five days sleeping in his car and hiding in secluded parks in and around Las Vegas.
They were found early one morning in Mr. Barajas’s car by police officers conducting a routine check of a parking lot in Henderson, Nev. Mr. Barajas was taken into custody and later convicted of sex crimes in Nevada and California.
The student returned home, where she received several months of inpatient therapy, Mr. Ring said.
Esther Miller, an abuse survivor who received part of the 2007 settlement from the archdiocese, said that for many Catholics, especially children at Catholic schools, the power wielded by a clergy member or an influential lay person could carry similar weight.
“There is a spotlight that needs to be shown on the situation of lay abusers because there is a lot of darkness there,” she said.
“Whether you’re in the church pew, in the sacristy or on the blacktop on the playground, it is the same vibe,” she added. “Whether it’s the principal, the athletic director or the janitor, it is the same thing. Whatever power a child can have is stolen from them.”
TOKYO — A United States Navy sailor and a Japanese woman have been found dead on the Japanese island of Okinawa in what the police are investigating as a murder-suicide.
The Japanese Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the sailor, Gabriel A. Olivero of North Carolina, appeared to have fatally stabbed the woman and then killed himself with the same knife.
Mr. Olivero, 32, and the woman, 44, were found by the Okinawa police on Saturday in an apartment in Chatan, a village on the island’s southwestern coast, according to NHK, the public broadcaster, and the local news media. They have not been publicly identified.
About 25,000 American troops are stationed on Okinawa, half of all American soldiers based in Japan. Violence committed by American service members or related personnel on the island has long caused friction between Washington and Tokyo.
Takeo Akiba, the Japanese vice minister of foreign affairs, protested to William F. Hagerty, the United States ambassador to Japan, in a phone call on Saturday, said Takeshi Osuga, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry.
Mr. Akiba described the deaths as “extremely regrettable.” According to the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Hagerty said the United States would fully cooperate with the investigation and “do everything we can do to prevent such a case from happening again.”
The police received an urgent call around 7:25 a.m. on Saturday from the father of the dead woman’s young daughter, who was found uninjured in the apartment, said Ichiro Kyan, vice director of the investigation team of the Okinawa Prefectural Police. Mr. Kyan said the police would confirm how the two people died after autopsies were conducted.
“This is an absolute tragedy and we are fully committed to supporting the investigation into the incident,” said First Lt. David Mancilla, a spokesman for the United States Marine Corps in Okinawa. “At this time, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service is in support of the Okinawa Prefectural Police.”
Okinawa residents have protested the heavy presence of United States military forces on the island, and crimes committed by American soldiers or related personnel have ignited deep anger.
In 2017, an Okinawa court sentenced a former United States Marine, Kenneth Franklin Shinzato, to life in prison after convicting him of the rape and murder of Rina Shimabukuro, a 20-year-old Japanese woman.
At the time of the killing, Mr. Shinzato, who served in the Marines from 2007 to 2014, was a civilian working for a contract company on Kadena Air Base, an American military installation on the island.
The relationship between Okinawa, the United States and the government of Japan is fraught. Last year, Denny Tamaki, the son of a Japanese woman and a United States Marine, won a close election for governor of Okinawa in which he opposed plans by Japanese and American officials to transfer a busy Marine air base from one part of the island to another, saying it should be moved out of Okinawa altogether.
The island’s voters rejected the transfer plan in a February referendum, but the central government said construction of the new base would continue.
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Another judge has recused himself from the trial of a white Alabama police officer charged with murder in the death of an unarmed black man.
News outlets report Judge Sam Welch was appointed Friday and recused himself this week, becoming the 8th judge to drop the case.
Montgomery police officer Aaron Cody Smith said he acted in self-defense when killing 58-year-old Greg Gunn, who fled a random stop-and-frisk and was chased, shocked, beaten and then shot five times in 2016.
Welch is a former presiding judge of the state court of Criminal Appeals who says he had denied motions asking for another judge's recusal.
The state Supreme Court has now tapped retired Dale County Circuit Judge Philip Ben McLauchlin in a 9th attempt to pick a judge.
BRUSSELS — Belgium apologized on Thursday for the kidnapping, segregation, deportation and forced adoption of thousands of children born to mixed-race couples during its colonial rule of Burundi, Congo and Rwanda.
The apology is the first time that Belgium has recognized any responsibility for what historians say was the immense harm the country inflicted on the Central African nations, which it colonized for eight decades. Prime Minister Charles Michel offered the apology on Thursday afternoon in front of a plenary session of Parliament, which was attended by dozens of people of mixed race in the visitors gallery.
“Throughout Belgian colonial Africa, a system of targeted segregation of métis and their families was maintained by the Belgian state and acts were committed that violated the fundamental rights of peoples,” he said, using the term for mixed-race people.
“This is why, in the name of the federal government, I recognize the targeted segregation of which métis people were victims” under Belgian colonial rule in Africa, and “the ensuing policy of forced kidnapping” after independence, he added.
“In the name of the federal government,” Mr. Michel said, “I present our apologies to the métis stemming from the Belgian colonial era and to their families for the injustices and the suffering inflicted upon them.”
“I also wish to express our compassion for the African mothers, from whom the children were taken,” he said.
The prime minister said that the Belgian government would make resources available to finance additional research on the issue, open up its colonial archives to métis people and offer administrative help to those seeking to gain access to their official records and seeking Belgian nationality.
Over the past year, Belgium has taken a number of steps to reassess its colonial past. The apologies also come at a time when politicians across Europe are under pressure from a growing African diaspora and a younger generation that wishes to shed a new light on colonial history in order to tackle latent racism and discrimination in European society.
Some experts on colonial history noted that Belgium’s apology came late — nearly 60 years after the three countries gained independence.
Racial segregation was a pillar of Belgian colonial rule, historians say. Until the late 1950s, the colonial authorities discouraged interracial romance and banned interracial marriage before the Catholic Church.
Many white Belgian men, nevertheless, married black Congolese women according to local customs, producing children sometimes called métis. But in the eyes of Belgium, these children undermined official segregation policies and blemished the white race’s prestige, official documents from that time show.
Fearing a repeat of the Red River Rebellion in Canada in 1869-1870, when métis people revolted and overthrew the local government, the Belgian authorities ordered métis children in Congo to be separated from their families, and from the black population as a whole.
An estimated 10,000 to 20,000 children were segregated from their parents — most often from single African mothers — and placed in orphanages and schools predominantly run by the Catholic Church, historians said.
“Children born out of parents of mixed color during colonial times were always considered as a threat to the colonial enterprise, to profits and to the prestige and the domination of the white race,” said Assumani Budagwa, 65, a Belgian engineer and amateur historian who was born in colonial Congo and whose family experienced the separation of mixed-race children.
Mr. Budagwa was a co-author of a Parliamentary resolution that was unanimously adopted last year urging the government to apologize and recognizing Belgium’s misdeeds regarding the mixed-race children with the complicity of the Roman Catholic Church.
The resolution also demanded that the government open up its colonial archives and grant administrative help to hundreds of people in Congo and in Belgium who still do not possess their official birth certificates, and to those who wish to reconstitute their true family history.
Around the time when Belgium’s colonies gained independence, in the early 1960s, thousands of métis children were taken from Burundi, Congo and Rwanda to Belgium, where they were either adopted by white parents or raised in Belgian boarding schools. Many are still alive today.
The Catholic Church apologized in 2017 for its “participation” in the kidnapping and segregation of métis children and in the banning of mixed-race marriages. In a letter, the Belgian bishops stated: “Many never knew their mother or their father, and many mothers never saw their children again. For a long time, they couldn’t fully exercise their civic rights, and a large number later found itself on the margins of Belgian society in insecurity and hardship.”
The letter said, “We present our apologies to those people for the part taken by the Catholic Church in these deeds.”
Métis de Belgique, a Belgian group representing mixed-race people affected by the segregation, along with their descendants, counts a few hundred active members and fights for their right to obtain Belgian nationality, which in some cases still has not been granted, and to gain access to their families’ colonial records.
While some historians say Belgium’s apology was not sufficient, Mr. Budagwa, co-author of the resolution that led to Thursday’s official apology, was more optimistic.
“Peoples rarely and with great difficulty recognize their errors and their responsibility in historical crimes,” he said, calling the prime minister’s declaration both historic — because it was done in the name of the Belgian people — and symbolic, because it “doesn’t efface the aftermath of the colonization.”
He added, “And it is also, above all, human.”
BOSTON — The Boston school system has been sued by a former student who was shot in the head by a dean at a high school who had recruited him to deal drugs.
WGBH-FM reported Thursday that Luis Angel Rodriguez is asking for $5 million.
The federal suit says the district's negligence led to "severe emotional distress, psychiatric injury, facial scarring, facial paralysis, hearing loss and other injuries."
 Rodriguez was shot in 2015 by Shaun Harrison, a dean of English High School.
Prosecutors say Harrison recruited Rodriguez to sell pot, but was apparently upset over poor sales.
Harrison was convicted in June of assault with intent to murder and other charges and sentenced to as many as 26 years in prison.
A schools spokesman says the district does not comment on pending litigation.
___
Information from: WGBH-FM, http://www.wgbh.org
Watch the new revival of “Roswell” on CW as the reboots keep on comin’. Or catch the Season 2 premiere of “Corporate” on Comedy Central.
ROSWELL, NEW MEXICO 9 p.m. on CW.  This sci-fi series based on the young adult book series “Roswell High” gets a revival 20 years after its debut. Jeanine Mason (“Grey’s Anatomy”) stars as Liz, a native of Roswell, N.M., who returns home 10 years after leaving and discovers that her old crush, Max (Nathan Dean Parsons), has supernatural powers — and he’s not the only alien around. The show sticks to the original’s main plot points, but retells them in the context of today’s politics.
AMERICAN EXPERIENCE: THE SWAMP 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Not far from Miami lies Everglades National Park, a 1.5 million-acre wetland that is home to the American crocodile and the Florida panther. Today it is guarded as a mesmerizing tropical ecosystem, but more than a century ago entrepreneurs and politicians saw it as a useless swamp ripe for development. This documentary, loosely based on a book by the journalist Michael Grunwald, charts the disastrous consequences of repeated attempts to drain the Everglades and the work that led to President Franklin D. Roosevelt authorizing the park’s creation in 1934.
DRUNK HISTORY 10 p.m. on Comedy Central. Season 6 begins with a parody of the children’s horror series “Are You Afraid of the Dark?” in which an inebriated Rich Fulcher tells the “Frankenstein” origin story around a campfire. Evan Rachel Wood plays Mary Shelley, Elijah Wood portrays Mary’s husband, Percy, and Seth Rogen assumes the role of Victor Frankenstein.
CORPORATE 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. The New York Times’s television critics named this dark workplace comedy series one of the best new shows of 2018. Margaret Lyons wrote: “‘Corporate’ is as nihilistic as they come, so bleak it often becomes absurd and even supernatural.” In this Season 2 opener, Matt (Matt Ingebretson) suppresses a potential crush on a new co-worker, and his ruthless boss (Lance Reddick) makes an acquisition.
REVENGER (2018) stream on Netflix. A former detective (Bruce Khan) goes undercover as a death-row convict to infiltrate a remote prison island and avenge his family’s murder in this South Korean action flick.
THE SNAPPER (1993) stream on Hulu; rent on iTunes, Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. Sharon (Tina Kellegher), a young checkout clerk from the Dublin suburbs, catches her tight-knit family off guard when she announces she is pregnant after a drunken night out. The blow isn’t just that she is expecting — it’s that she can’t remember who the father is (or so she claims). Her friends and family, led by the ill-tempered patriarch Dessie (Colm Meaney), support her nonetheless but are thrown another fastball with rumors that the mystery man is a married neighbor and father of one of Sharon’s friends. Writing in The Times, Vincent Canby called the comedy a “small, joyful lark of a film.”
STUART, Fla. — A judge will allow as evidence a video of a former college student struggling against his restraints at a Florida hospital on the night he's accused of killing two people.
Austin Harrouff's attorneys say the video shows the "mental status" of the 22-year-old hours after he's accused of killing 59-year-old John Stevens III and 53-year-old Michelle Mishcon. Police say the Florida State University student was found biting and chewing on Stevens' face in the couple's driveway.
Harrouff is charged with two counts of first-degree murder.
TC Palm reports Monday's hearing centered on 1:14 seconds of video described in a defense motion as Harrouff in his hospital bed "fighting against his restraints."
Forensic psychologist Dr. Phillip Resnick has said Harrouff believed he was "half-dog, half man" when he attacked the couple.
RIVNE, Ukraine — The target lived on the sixth floor of a cheerless, salmon-colored building on Vidinska Street, across from a thicket of weeping willows. Oleg Smorodinov found him there, rented a small apartment on the ground floor, and waited.
He had gotten the name from his two handlers in Moscow. They met at the Vienna Cafe, a few blocks from the headquarters of Russia’s domestic intelligence agency, and handed him a list of six people in Ukraine. Find them, they told Mr. Smorodinov, and he set off. He was already boasting to friends that he was a spy.
Each person on the list was assigned a code name related to flowers. One was ‘briar.’ Another was ‘buttercup.’ The target, a man named Ivan Mamchur, was called ‘rose.’ To Mr. Smorodinov, he was a nobody, an electrician who worked at the local jail. To the handlers in Moscow, though, he was significant.
“Drenched in blood up to his elbows,” they told him.
The surveillance was uneventful. At 7 each morning, Mr. Mamchur left his wife and daughter, rode his bicycle to work, and returned each evening at 6. “Like clockwork,” Mr. Smorodinov recalled. In his idle hours, Mr. Smorodinov drank beer in the parking lot where an old woman kept watch on a clowder of cats.
Then, on Sept. 16, 2016, Mr. Smorodinov’s phone buzzed with a text message from Moscow.
“The rose has to be picked today,” he remembered it saying. “Tomorrow, it will no longer be relevant.”
In the grim hallway outside the man’s apartment, Mr. Smorodinov positioned himself, a cigarette in one hand and in the other, a pneumatic pistol modified to fire real bullets and fitted with a silencer.
“I took the pistol,” he later recalled, “and thought ‘what will be, will be.’ ”
As Mr. Mamchur emerged from the elevator, Mr. Smorodinov called his name and fired until the magazine was empty.
Mr. Mamchur did not fall immediately, but turned toward his assassin, stumbling a few steps before gasping.
“It was not me,” he said. “I’m not guilty.”
Then he dropped to the concrete floor.
Mr. Smorodinov fled to Moscow, where his handlers treated him to dinner at a Japanese sushi chain called Two Chopsticks. For his work, they bought him a Mercedes van, pictures of which he posted on social media. But they withheld a portion of a promised $5,000 because he had left the murder weapon in Ukraine.
They told him not to worry. No one would ever catch him. No one would ever care. At the time, Mr. Smorodinov was not certain why they had asked him to kill Ivan Mamchur but now he thinks he knows.
“It was revenge,” he told me. “Most likely revenge.”
I met Oleg Smorodinov last October, during his trial at the Rivne City Court in Ukraine, about two years after the murder. He had been arrested a few months after it happened while crossing back into Ukraine to surprise an ex-girlfriend for her birthday.
A mistake. She helped tip off the police.
“He killed a person,” she told me later by text message. “Let him answer for it.”
The courtroom was tiny, about the size of a large bedroom in a New York apartment, if one equipped with a steel cage. I approached Mr. Smorodinov as he was being locked in. He was dressed in a blue track suit and perked up when I introduced myself as a reporter. He was surprisingly eager to talk and invited me to meet him afterward, in the jail.
The trial had been underway for weeks but seemed like a formality. Ukrainian prosecutors say he was a hit man for Russia’s intelligence services. His DNA was found on the murder weapon and on cigarette butts collected at the scene. Mr. Smorodinov admits he pulled the trigger.
The three judges sat glumly beneath a nylon Ukrainian flag, listening impassively as a prosecutor read out the results of a ballistics test and a gory medical examiner’s report.
Everyone seemed bored. Violence is normalized in Ukraine.
For months, I had been traveling in Russia and Europe, reporting on the poisoning last year in England of the former Russian spy, Sergei V. Skripal. It had touched off a geopolitical confrontation and brought talk of a new Cold War. Britain and its allies enacted sanctions and expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats after blaming the nerve agent attack on two officers from Russia’s military intelligence service, the G.R.U.
For Ukraine, Russian interference was an old reality. Russian special forces had seized Crimea in February 2014 and since then, the Kremlin has supplied arms, funding and troops to fuel a separatist war in eastern Ukraine that has cost 13,000 lives.
Assassinations happen frequently enough in Ukraine that they are often just blips in the local news cycle. In 2006, Russian President Vladimir V. Putin signed a law legalizing targeted killings abroad, and Ukrainian officials say teams of Russian hit men operate freely inside the country.
“For the intelligence services, as bad as this sounds, murdering people is just part of the work flow,” said Oleksiy Arestovych, a retired officer in Ukraine’s military intelligence service. “They go to work, it’s their job. You have a work flow, you write articles. They have a workflow, they murder people.”
“It doesn’t really worry them,” he said. “They celebrate it, mark it, without much sentiment.”
The Skripal poisoning had woken the West up to this. In Britain, authorities are now reviewing the cases of several Russians whose deaths on British soil were not initially deemed suspicious. In the United States, a bipartisan group of senators recently introduced legislation that would require the State Department to determine whether Russia should be deemed a state sponsor of terrorism.
“There’s no evidence to suggest that Russia can be deterred from making these kinds of attacks,” said Daniel Hoffman, a former C.I.A. station chief who helped negotiate the release of Mr. Skripal from a Russian prison in 2010. “It really does fall on the people at risk to try to conceal their location and be on the lookout for any signs that the Russians might be targeting them.”
Russian officials have denied their country’s involvement in the Skripal poisoning. In a text message, Dmitri S. Peskov, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, said the Kremlin knew of neither Mr. Mamchur nor Mr. Smorodinov.
I had come to Ukraine to learn more about G.R.U. assassins like those accused of trying to kill Mr. Skripal. Ukraine was where the agency had proved itself to Mr. Putin by helping to seize Crimea back in 2014. But now, G.R.U. fingerprints were turning up around the world.
Several years ago, while working in Moscow, I had gotten to know a handful of Russian intelligence officers. A retired colonel once listed the qualities that he, as a professional, believed a successful assassin should possess.
“To do this,” he told me, “you need spirit and training and hatred. And in addition to hatred, you also need money and desire.”
But these were elite assassins. More often, I learned, if the Kremlin wants you dead, they send someone like Oleg Smorodinov, an amoral hired gun willing to kill in exchange for a few thousand dollars and a Mercedes van.
At the Rivne jail, the guards confiscated my scarf. They worried that Mr. Smorodinov could use it to strangle me.
In earlier photos, Mr. Smorodinov does look menacing, with a sailor’s blocky build and a boxer’s misshapen face. But jail has aged him, melting away his musculature.
“A grandpa,” he sighs. He is 51.
In reality, he is the one who should be afraid. Rivne is a proudly anti-Russian city in western Ukraine with a monument that bears the spectral faces of the 21 local sons who have died in the fighting still underway in eastern Ukraine against the Russian-backed separatist groups.
Mr. Smorodinov is an ethnic Russian who moved to eastern Ukraine as a teenager. He later fought with the same separatists loathed in Rivne.
For his safety, he is being held in the smaller transit jail rather than the main detention center where the victim, Mr. Mamchur, worked. One guard told him a story, perhaps apocryphal, about an accused Russian assassin who was jailed in Kiev, the capital. He was dead within 40 minutes.
In the first of our three meetings, Mr. Smorodinov unfolded a map of central Moscow that he had drawn from memory on graph paper. He pointed to a pencil-shaded block labeled Vienna Cafe, around the corner from a square representing the headquarters of Russia’s Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., the main successor of the Soviet K.G.B.
“This, in general, is where I met with my handlers, in the cafe,” he said.
Mr. Smorodinov has never been an intelligence officer, or so he says. Though he had once served in the Soviet navy and worked for a few years as a police officer, he has dedicated much of his adult life to organized crime, having done time in prison for bribery and extortion. Between prison stints, he worked as a sex trafficker, shuttling women from Ukraine to clients in Moscow, a former criminal associate told me.
Mr. Smorodinov described the murder in minute detail, including the text message from Moscow, the floral code names and the stunned expression on Mr. Mamchur’s face as he collapsed to the floor.
But he is trying to persuade prosecutors, and me, that he was an unwitting assassin, duped by the two mysterious handlers he met at the Vienna Cafe, men he knew only as Philipp and Maksim.
Mr. Smorodinov said he was steered to them by contacts he made at weapons expos in Moscow. He settled in the Russian capital in 2015 after he was injured by artillery fire while fighting in eastern Ukraine.
Nikolai A. Gorbunov, whose company OOO Zenit sells accessories for AK-style assault rifles, recalled Mr. Smorodinov and said Russian intelligence agents frequently attend the expos.
At one expo, Mr. Smorodinov said someone linked to Wagner, the Russian mercenary outfit, mentioned a need for fighters in Syria, where Russian troops are supporting the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
“I wanted to go to Syria,” he said, “honestly, to shoot, to fight, to earn money.”
But when the plan fell through, Mr. Smorodinov said the Wagner contact introduced him to Maksim and Philipp. He was thrilled. He equated it to a job in the Interior Ministry.
“I was thinking of my pension — to work several years and retire to collect my pension,” he said.
When he arrived in Rivne, Mr. Smorodinov said he understood that his mission was to document Mr. Mamchur’s movements. The murder was supposed to have been carried out by a team of what he called “the liquidators.”
“Liquidators only work for one day, an hour, two, three, not more,” he said. “They work under the principle that they don’t exist. As soon as they arrive, they’re gone to a different city.”
An inconvenient fact in this scenario is that during his stay in Rivne, his accomplice, Kostya, identified by investigators as Konstantin Ivanov, brought him two guns, one of which had a silencer. In their communications, alluding to the code names of the targets, the two men referred to the guns as “watering cans.”
“We’re dealing with flowers here,” Mr. Smorodinov said.
Mr. Smorodinov insisted that even as he fired the shots into Mr. Mamchur, he thought it was a charade, a way to test his mettle. The bullets could have been blanks, he said.
“I’m standing there, and go up to him and say, ‘Get up.’ It’s not a test,” he told me. “That’s what went through my head. ‘It’s not a test.’”
It is not an especially convincing defense. Aleksandr Gatiyatullin, who headed the criminal gang Mr. Smorodinov was involved with in the early 2000s and served time in prison with him, described him as thickheaded, willing to take serious risks without thinking much about the consequences.
Weeks before Mr. Mamchur’s murder, Mr. Gatiyatullin said, Mr. Smorodinov confided in him and his wife, claiming that he had been made a lieutenant in the F.S.B. and was working in Ukraine on a special mission.
“We laughed and laughed. No one ever took him seriously,” Mr. Gatiyatullin said. “Then this murder of Mamchur happened. I see he posts photos of a Mercedes minibus and I wonder where he got the money for it.”
He added: “I think some F.S.B. guys called him for a meeting, saw what an idiot he was and thought they could use him.”
On the day Mr. Smorodinov was arrested, Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Yuri V. Lutsenko, held a news conference and described the murder as further evidence that Ukraine was “in a state of war.” Ukraine’s news media quickly lost interest, chalking it up as just another bloody episode in Russia’s continuing interference.
Prosecutors seem only marginally interested in why Mr. Mamchur had been a target. To Ukrainian officials, the answer seemed obvious.
“This is part of an interlinked chain of crimes, the main purpose of which is to destabilize the country,” Serhii Knyazev, the chief of Ukraine’s national police, told me.
But it wasn’t that simple. From the morning I met him in the courtroom, Mr. Smorodinov had talked about a list of six names. They were all Ukrainians, and his first assignment had been to locate each of them. Once he did that, he was sent to Rivne.
In jail, he gave me the passcodes to his social media accounts and told me I could find the list on his computer, which was in Moscow with his nephew. When I telephoned the nephew, Vladimir Dobrovolsky, he said he knew about his uncle’s trips to Ukraine to “surveil people.”
“I tried not to get involved in that,” Mr. Dobrovolsky said. “With the intelligence services, the less you know, the better you sleep.”
He emailed me the files and I found a flood of photos of naked women and one document named “List of Workers,” a title Mr. Smorodinov said he had concocted as a ruse in case anyone seized his computer.
The six men were of different ages and, except for two of them, lived in different cities. Ukrainian investigators and prosecutors hadn’t been very interested. One police investigator told me he had never even seen the list and asked if I could forward a copy. I never did.
I had assumed the people on the list were somehow tied to Russia’s continuing conflict in Ukraine, that the Kremlin was seeking revenge against individuals tied to the fighting. And as I investigated the names, I learned that they did all share a military background.
But there was a surprise. What tied them together wasn’t the Ukraine conflict. Instead, it was a different Russian war.
In early August 2008, I rushed from Moscow to Tbilisi to cover the conflict breaking out between Russia and the Republic of Georgia. I had never covered a war and hired a driver to take me and a photographer to get as close to the action as possible. It did not take long.
On a road in the middle of a field, we were stopped by Georgian military police officers, who said they were looking for spies. I don’t remember the exact chronology of what happened next: I had gotten out to speak with the officers, when an antiaircraft battery began firing toward a Russian bomber that I strained to see against the bright blue of the sky.
Then came a terrible whooshing sound that kept getting louder until it felt like my ears were going to pop. I dove into a ditch just as the bombs hit the road. A squadron of Russian Air Force fighter jets, Su-25s, appeared, pummeling everything in view — apartment buildings, the fields on either side of us.
One thing stands out vividly: the antiaircraft guns firing round after round into the sky. I have a memory of a single Su-25 coming down in flames, floating like a leaf, back and forth, until it hit the ground.
The war lasted only five days and ended with a crushing victory for Moscow. But in many ways, the conflict was an embarrassment for Russia’s intelligence services. Years earlier, Ukraine had secretly sold sophisticated antiaircraft systems to Georgia, allowing for the effective defense that I had seen.
Russian officials refused to believe that Georgian soldiers had the skill to operate the complicated systems. Ukrainian troops, they insisted, must have helped.
For Mr. Putin — who has described Russians and Ukrainians as “one people” — it was an act of bloody treachery.
“We don’t know who decided to deliver equipment and weapons from Ukraine during the conflict, but whoever it was, that person made a huge mistake,” Mr. Putin said at a news conference shortly after the war.
“That the weapons delivered in the course of military action were operated by specialists from Ukraine is a crime,” he continued. “If we find confirmation of this, we will accordingly make contact with the people who did it.”
Ukraine’s Russia-backed Party of Regions, then in the opposition, began an investigation and published the names of Ukrainian soldiers believed to have been involved. One man, described in the report as having “participated in military actions,” was on Mr. Smorodinov’s list.
So were two others who appeared in books about the war written by Russian historians. Ukrainian officials confirmed that a fourth man on the list was in Georgia but provided no details. A fifth man confirmed to me that he was in Georgia, but denied any involvement in the war.
The Times is withholding the names of the men for their safety.
“Fortunately, these citizens are alive,” Mr. Knyazev, the national police chief, told me. “At least for now.”
Mr. Mamchur was third on the list, the only name highlighted in green font.
Initially, Ukrainian officials were reluctant to tell me that he had been in Georgia. His wife refused to speak with me. But a co-worker at the Rivne jail, Serhii M. Klymchuk, said Mr. Mamchur spoke fondly about his time in Georgia and praised the efficiency of the Georgian military.
Eventually, officials confirmed that Mr. Mamchur had been in Georgia when the war began, as a commander in the Ukrainian army’s third special operations regiment, an elite contingent whose fighters had also seen action in Iraq and Afghanistan. But they insisted that neither he nor any other Ukrainian soldier took part in the fighting.
Yuri I. Yekhanurov, who was Ukraine’s defense minister at the time, said he rushed to evacuate the soldiers when the fighting started.
“I remember that time well,” he said in an interview. “For me, it was a problem to extract my people.”
The Kremlin has never believed that. After the war, Russian state television produced an all-out propaganda campaign that included a documentary by Arkady Mamontov, whose films often serve as a barometer of Kremlin sentiment.
In one scene, Mr. Mamontov is shown berating a bewildered, shirtless man inside his home in Ukraine, accusing him of firing on Russian jets during the war.
“Are you a former soldier?” Mr. Mamontov shouts as the man fumbles for answers. “Ukrainians and Russians we’re brothers — and you shot them down,” he said.
Curiously, a month before Mr. Mamchur was killed, Russian television again aired the Mamontov documentary.
Mr. Smorodinov assumes he will be found guilty. In more than six hours of interviews, not once did he express remorse. Had he not been caught, he acknowledged, he most likely would have continued working his way down the list, name by name.
He is hoping to be swapped for one of the dozens of Ukrainians imprisoned in Russia, but the Russians have yet to show any interest.
“He doesn’t understand that no one needs him,” Mr. Knyazev, the national police chief, said. “He’s forgotten, written off, a used bullet. Our enemy, unfortunately, has a lot of people like him in reserve.”
BARRON, Wis. — The crime began with a chance encounter: From the moment Jake Patterson spotted a 13-year-old girl boarding a school bus last fall, he “knew that was the girl he was going to take,” Wisconsin investigators said in court documents released on Monday.
In the days that followed, Mr. Patterson, 21, mapped out his plot to abduct Jayme Closs, a middle-school student whom he had never met before, the investigators said. He took a shotgun from his father, switched out his car’s license plate and bought a mask from Walmart. He shaved his head and face — to leave no traces — and wiped clean his shotgun shells. He twice drove out to Jayme’s house in the small town of Barron, but saw cars in the driveway or people awake inside, the report says.
Then, late on an October night, Mr. Patterson pulled up again to the home of the Closs family — people he had never met — and killed Jayme’s father, James Closs, with a single blast of the shotgun. He then forced his way into a bathroom where Jayme and her mother, Denise, were hiding in a bathtub, the investigators said. He ordered Denise Closs to cover her daughter’s mouth with black tape, then killed Denise. Then he tied up Jayme and forced the teenager into the trunk of his car — all of it in a matter of four minutes.
The details of Jayme’s abduction and captivity, outlined in documents released as Mr. Patterson was formally charged in the kidnapping and killings, were elaborately planned, gruesome and terrifying. They told the story of a girl who was forced to spend three months held against her will in the cabin of a volatile stranger after having witnessed the deaths of her parents. It was the situation every parent fears — and one that experts say is exceedingly rare: a targeted attack on a child by a total stranger.
Mr. Patterson, who was ordered held on $5 million bail, did not enter a plea during a brief court appearance on Monday. Investigators say that he confessed to them and provided the details they described about the planning behind the abduction. Mr. Patterson’s lawyers did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment.
Wearing an orange jumpsuit, Mr. Patterson appeared via video from the Barron County Jail and answered “no” and “yes, sir” to basic questions from the judge. Mr. Patterson, who wears glasses and has close-cropped, receding brown hair, showed no obvious emotion during the court appearance. At various points, he yawned and rubbed his chin.
The allegations have upended Barron, where residents spent weeks searching for Jayme as scores of investigators swarmed to the small town and followed thousands of tips and false sightings. Residents said they were thrilled that Jayme had managed to escape from her captor last week. She has since been staying with family members, who posted a photograph of her smiling and holding her dog, Molly.
But residents were stunned by the investigators’ descriptions of what had happened — the randomness of it, but also the chilling and seemingly intricate planning.
Some parents were newly hesitant about school buses, and wondered aloud what else might no longer be safe.
“I’ll be taking my child to school,” said Amy Christensen, the manager of Skippy’s Pub in downtown Barron, a town of about 3,400 people. Since this happened, Ms. Christensen said, she has let her 3-year-old daughter sleep with her. “I’ve been holding her close every night,” she said.
The charges against Mr. Patterson buck national trends in homicides and kidnappings.
In 2017, fewer than 10 percent of homicide victims were killed by strangers, according to the F.B.I. And according to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, cases in which strangers abduct children are very rare; of more than 25,000 reports of missing children that the group received in 2018, only 77 were abductions by nonfamily members, said Erin Farrell, a center representative.
The prosecution’s 12-page complaint, which included details from interviews by law enforcement officials with Jayme and Mr. Patterson, provided chilling answers to questions that had haunted Barron ever since Oct. 15, the night that the Closses were killed and their daughter vanished.
Mr. Patterson spotted Jayme last year as he was driving to a job he held briefly at a cheese factory while she boarded a school bus. Within days, the authorities said he told them, he was assembling supplies to abduct her and taking steps to disguise his identity. Prosecutors said he resolved to kill anyone else in the Closs home, rather than allow anyone to threaten his plan.
“He indicated that if he had been stopped by police, it was likely he was going to shoot at police officers with the three shotgun shells that he had remaining,” Brian Wright, the Barron County district attorney, said in court.
In fact, Mr. Patterson told investigators that he saw police cars speeding toward the Closs home about 20 seconds after he left with Jayme bound and stuffed in the trunk. After slowing down for them, Mr. Patterson continued about an hour north to Gordon, where he took Jayme inside a cabin and forced her to change her clothes.
In the 88 days that followed, Jayme told investigators, she was kept inside the cabin and forced to hide under Mr. Patterson’s twin-size bed when he had guests over or when he left. Sometimes, she went without food, water or access to a toilet for as long as 12 hours, she said.
Mark Fruehauf, the district attorney in Douglas County, which includes Gordon, said more charges could be filed in the coming weeks related to Mr. Patterson’s actions after the initial kidnapping. Mr. Fruehauf did not offer details, but court filings said Mr. Patterson used force and threats to prevent Jayme from escaping.
When she was forced to hide under the bed, Jayme told detectives, Mr. Patterson would box her in with totes and laundry bins that he secured with barbell weights. He would turn on music to prevent guests from hearing any noise she made. And one time, when Mr. Patterson believed she had tried to escape, Jayme said he struck her and threatened worse consequences if she tried again.
But last Thursday, after Mr. Patterson told Jayme he was leaving for a few hours, she managed to force her way out from under the bed, she said. She grabbed a pair of men’s shoes — apparently Mr. Patterson’s — and ran to a nearby road, shoes ill fitting and on the wrong feet, crying out for help. A woman who was walking by with a dog took her to a nearby home. “I’m Jayme Closs,” the woman recalled the girl saying. “I don’t know where I am.” And then: “Please help — I want to go home.”
Mr. Wright, the prosecutor, called Jayme’s escape “incredible.” He said, “You can see the amount of control that he was exerting over her, and at some point she found it within herself at 13 years old to say, ‘I’m going to get myself out.’”
As sheriff’s deputies took Jayme to safety, they set out to look for Mr. Patterson. A short time later, deputies saw the car that Jayme had described to them, and pulled him over.
Mr. Patterson, who had apparently been out looking for Jayme, told the deputies he knew why they had stopped him, investigators said.
“I did it,” he said.
AMERICAN SPY Lauren Wilkinson
One of the enduring pleasures of genre fiction is the occasional appearance of a novel that does more than it says on the tin: a murder mystery that offers genuine social insight, for example, or a thriller that informs as well as entertains. This happens less often than you’d think. More usual is the genre novel offered by a literary heavyweight self-consciously paddling in shallow waters, doing the genre a favor by splashing about in it. They might imagine their heft is adding sparkle to the waves, but all too often there is, as Gertrude Stein said, “no there there.” Just a few borrowed accessories, and a misguided sense of entitlement.
It’s a relief, then, that Lauren Wilkinson’s “American Spy,” while embracing ambitions and concerns that don’t always figure highly in the spy genre, is first and foremost a thriller. Its trigger sends us straight into plot: Marie Mitchell, a young black woman, is confronted in her home one night by an intruder. Dispatching him without undue difficulty, she flees the United States with her 4-year-old twin sons, and then — hiding out at her mother’s home in Martinique — sets about unraveling the complicated back story that produced her present (which, in the novel’s reality, is 1992).
The key to her current situation turns out to be her role, in the 1980s, as an F.B.I. intelligence agent. “Recruiting and running informants was about cultivating their trust,” Marie tells us. “To do that I found it worked best to lie frequently to them.” But like any agent in the field, she’s more lied to than lying: Recruited to an overseas operation, she finds herself the bait in a honey trap intended to remove the charismatic, popular leader of the newborn Burkina Faso, and soon realizes that the United States is interfering in another country’s democratic processes for its own advantage.
Plenty to enjoy on its own terms, then, as a slick, well-observed thriller, but what adds depth are the perspectives offered by the central character. As a black woman, Marie is undervalued twice over in the boys’ club atmosphere of the F.B.I. of the 1980s. Spying is in her blood — her grandmother, fair-skinned enough to pass for white, “moved in and out of the New York places where Negroes were interdits, gathering her intelligence on the world that white people inhabited” — but her career choice remains morally problematic: Her mentor in the F.B.I. had been “one of a small handful of black special agents hired under J. Edgar Hoover’s tenure … used almost exclusively to undermine civil rights activists.” Her gender, too, puts barriers in her way. On being told, “We give female officers a hard time … We hold women to an unfair double standard,” she says, “Hearing him explain it in theoretical terms when I’d lived it caused me a specific type of maddening anger.”
[ A Times national security reporter writes about “that time the C.I.A. tried to recruit me.” ]
More controversial, perhaps, is Marie’s relationship with the revolutionary leader she is helping undermine. The novel is “inspired by true events,” and the man in question — with whom she falls in love, and who fathers her children — is Thomas Sankara, often referred to as “Africa’s Che Guevara.” It’s not unusual for a real-life figure like this to appear in fiction, but it might be pushing at the bounds of propriety to press-gang him into parenthood. Then again, challenging boundaries is what brave fiction does, and Wilkinson proves confident enough to carry it off. For a debut novel it’s remarkably assured, earning its genre stripes with panache, and addressing thought-provoking issues along the way.
It was the case that haunted a small city in Alabama for nearly two decades: Two 17-year-old girls disappeared on the way to a birthday party and were later found shot to death in the trunk of a car.
There was evidence that one of the girls had been sexually assaulted, and investigators collected DNA from the crime scene. The police chased down hundreds of leads over the years, but could not identify a suspect.
Until this month.
On Monday, the Ozark Police Department announced that thanks to the same investigative technique that led to an arrest in the Golden State Killer case, a suspect was in custody. This is at least the fourth case in five days that has been solved using genetic genealogy, as the investigative technique is known. The arrest comes amid dueling efforts to expand and to ban this approach to identifying DNA left at crime scenes.
Chief Marlos Walker of the Police Department said that identifying the crime scene DNA after all these years brought him relief and also surprise: The suspect, Coley McCraney, 45, was a high school classmate. The two even played basketball together, he said.
“I had to sit in my chair for three hours,” he said in a news conference.
The district attorney said he planned to seek the death penalty against Mr. McCraney, who was arrested Friday and charged with capital murder and rape in the deaths of Tracie Hawlett and J.B. Beasley. The pair was found in Ms. Beasley’s car on the side of a road on July 3, 1999. They had both been shot in the head.
Ms. Hawlett’s mother, Carol Roberts, told The Associated Press that she went numb when she heard an arrest had been made.
“He didn’t have the right to do that,” Ms. Roberts said. “I just want to know why.”
Chief Walker said he decided to try genetic genealogy shortly after the highly publicized announcement in April that Joseph James DeAngelo, a former police officer, had been charged with the crimes associated with the notorious Golden State Killer.
“It raised my awareness as something we needed to check into,” he said in an interview.
The murder of the two teenagers was the obvious case to apply it toward, he said. A double murder is rare in Ozark, a city of around 15,000 that is about 80 miles south of Montgomery.
“That’s the only case of that nature around here,” Chief Walker said. “This is the crime that shook everyone; not just our city but even wider than that. It’s one of the biggest cases in the state of Alabama.”
Chief Walker hired Parabon, a forensic consulting firm specializing in genetic genealogy, to assist with the case. The first few steps involved in identifying DNA this way are typically the same.
A genetic profile is uploaded to GEDMatch, a genealogy database popular with family history researchers — and more recently, law enforcement. Then the team of genetic genealogists hopes for a close match, ideally something in the third cousin range. In this case, the relatives were more distant, said CeCe Moore, who leads Parabon’s genetic genealogy team.
“When I looked at this case initially I didn’t think it would be an easy solve,” Ms. Moore said. Still, her team was able to build out a family tree, connecting the closer matches to a common ancestor and then filling in the branches with an array of publicly available data.
In the end, it was a lucky coincidence that altered the direction of the investigation. Though the Parabon team was not able to create a probable suspect list, the family tree hinted at several possible surnames. When Chief Walker looked at the list, one stood out: McCraney.
“I recognized that last name,” he said, because he had had a high school classmate with that surname.
There was a solid chance that the McCraney he knew could be related to the suspect, and that his DNA would help direct the family tree building. Mr. McCraney agreed to provide DNA, according to his defense lawyer. When investigators compared his DNA to the DNA from the crime scene, it appeared to be an exact match, Chief Walker said.
“Like most people, I was surprised,” he said. Mr. McCraney did not have the type of record or reputation to suggest he had been involved in this type of crime, Chief Walker said.
“But I’ve also been doing this long enough to know that DNA is a solid thing to believe in,” he said. “I didn’t have any reservations when we got a match that this was him.”
Asked why Mr. McCraney agreed to provide DNA, David Harrison, his lawyer, responded: “Because he’s not guilty. And in the trial all these facts will come out.”
His client is an ordained bishop who has been driving a truck for the past 20 years, he said.
“Millions of Americans died for the right to be innocent until proven guilty,” Mr. Harrison said. It concerns him, he said, that once people hear the word “DNA,” they often assume the person must be guilty. He added that he would be requesting a change of venue for the trial.
The announcement from the Ozark police comes on the heels of three other cases that were solved using genetic genealogy in the past five days, and more than 40 since April, according to Ms. Moore.
Questions around the legality of this new practice remain unresolved. In January, Charles Sydnor, a Maryland House delegate, introduced a bill that would prevent law enforcement from identifying suspects’ DNA by using relatives in genealogy databases. The bill died within weeks, but it fueled discussion about whether the practice violates people’s privacy. Others have raised concerns about the excessive weight placed on genetic evidence, when there are hundreds of reasons a match may not be an indicator of guilt.
Defenders of the technique say law enforcement is limiting its searches to genealogy databases for which users have explicitly consented to assisting with murder and sexual assault investigations.
“It’s just a wonderful tool,” Chief Walker said. “I think more agencies will be using it within weeks and months down the road.”
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — A trial date has been set in Florida for a woman accused of dressing up like a clown in 1990 and fatally shooting the wife of her future husband.
A Palm Beach County circuit judge on Wednesday set the first-degree murder trial of 55-year-old Sheila Keen-Warren to begin Jan. 31, 2020. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty.
Keen-Warren was arrested in 2017 and extradited from Virginia, where she lived with husband Michael Warren.
Officials say Warren's then-wife, Marlene Warren, was shot in the face in May 1990 by a clown delivering carnations and balloons. Investigators say new DNA testing led to Keen-Warren's arrest.
Several witnesses told detectives Sheila Keen and Michael Warren were having an affair before the killing, which they both denied. They married in 2002.
Keen-Warren denies the killing. Michael Warren has not been charged.
CHARLOTTE, Mich. — U.S. authorities are trying to have a woman extradited from Pakistan to stand trial in the 2002 killing of her husband who was viciously beaten, suffocated, then dumped and burned in a blueberry patch in western Michigan, investigators said.
In the years following Robert Caraballo's slaying in Charlotte, Michigan, his wife — Beverly McCallum — met a man from Pakistan over the internet and moved to his native country, the Lansing State Journal reported Wednesday.
Caraballo's badly burned remains were found in a scorched footlocker in a wooded area in Ottawa County in the days following his death, but it wasn't until 2015 that an anonymous tip led police to identify those remains as his.
Murder charges were filed in November against 58-year-old McCallum, her 38-year-old daughter, Dineane Ducharme, and Christopher McMillan, 40, of Grand Rapids. The three also are charged with conspiracy, and disinterment and mutilation of a body.
Authorities have been trying to extradite McCallum since the charges were filed. The newspaper did not say if she has been located or whether extradition proceedings have begun.
McMillan, a friend of Ducharme, told investigators that the slaying was planned and a "test run" was performed before killing Caraballo, Eaton County sheriff's Detective James Maltby testified in November.
Maltby said McMillan told investigators that McCallum pushed Caraballo down the basement stairs of a home in Charlotte, about 110 miles (180 kilometers) northwest of Detroit. They then beat him with at least one hammer in an attack so vicious that one of the hammers became stuck in Caraballo's skull. McCallum wrapped a plastic bag around the head of the still-breathing Caraballo, Maltby testified.
Ducharme, who was 21 at the time of the slaying, told police her mother killed Caraballo and that she helped dispose of her stepfather's body, according to Maltby.
Another of McCallum's daughters, who was aged 9 at the time, told police years later that she believes she and her 11-year-old sister were in the van when her mother and others drove a large metal box containing her father's body about 90 miles (145 kilometers) to Ottawa County.
Maltby testified that the older of the two younger daughters said McCallum told her she killed Caraballo in self-defense.
Sometime after the killing, Ducharme and her mother moved to Pasadena, Texas. McCallum subsequently moved to Pakistan after learning that the investigation into the slaying was progressing, Maltby said.
Ducharme is jailed in Texas, awaiting extradition to Michigan. McMillan is jailed in Michigan.
___
Information from: Lansing State Journal, http://www.lansingstatejournal.com
BRATISLAVA — A man charged with the murder of Slovak investigative journalist Jan Kuciak has confessed to shooting him, Slovak independent public television RTVS said on Thursday, quoting police sources.
The killing last year of Kuciak, who covered corruption, and his fiancée Martina Kusnirova sparked massive protests that led to the resignation of prime minister Robert Fico.
RTVS reported on its Facebook page that police sources said a former soldier identified only as Miroslav M. had confessed earlier that day during five hours of questioning by the police.
Daily Dennik N and website aktuality.sk, where Kuciak had reported on fraud cases involving politically connected businessmen before he was found shot dead at home with his fiancée in February 2018, each quoted their own police source as saying the same thing. 
Both news outlets identified the man as Miroslav Marcek.
The reported confession indicated that a second person among five people charged in the murder and who are in custody was cooperating with the police in the high profile case.
Slovakia's special prosecutor's office, which oversees the case, told RTVS that it would not comment on an active case. 
Police arrested four people last September. Prosecutors said they believed Marcek to have acted as a driver for a shooter, his cousin and ex-policeman Tomas Szabo.
A woman identified by Slovak media as Alena Zsuzsova was charged with ordering Kuciak's killing while Zoltan Andrusko was charged with facilitating it.
In March, Marian Kocner, a businessman and acquaintance of Zsuzsova, was also charged with ordering the murder. Kocner and Zsuzsova deny any wrongdoing.
A few months before he was killed, Kuciak told police that Kocner, a subject of his reportage, had threatened to start collecting information on him and his family. Police pressed no charges.
Public distrust in Slovak political leaders has kept attention fixed on any signs that Kuciak's murder was linked to ruling circles.
Two deputy general prosecutors have been forced to resign under pressure since January over their contacts with Kocner.
The killing was also a big factor in a presidential election last month in which liberal political novice Zuzana Caputova defeated the ruling party's candidate. 
 (Reporting by Tatiana Jancarikova; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. “He is a racist. He is a con man. And he is a cheat.”
That was Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, painting a scathing picture of the president’s motivations and inner circle in testimony before the House Oversight Committee.
Mr. Cohen said that Mr. Trump directed him to lie about hush payments to a pornographic film star and that Mr. Trump knew well in advance about a WikiLeaks email release damaging Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Those and other elements of his testimony could create new legal issues for Mr. Trump.
The hearing had moments of revelation and substance, but it was also marked by fiery exchanges. Here are a few of them.
That wasn’t all the House did today: The committee took an extended recess to help pass the first major gun control law in decades, requiring background checks for all gun buyers.
_____
2. As his former lawyer testified in Washington, President Trump met with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, in Vietnam.
Mr. Trump had a one-on-one exchange with Mr. Kim in downtown Hanoi before sitting down for dinner, above, with top aides from both countries. Formal talks were to take place today (Thursday morning local time), with Mr. Cohen’s excoriating characterizations of Mr. Trump still echoing from the other side of the world.
A ceremony to sign a “joint agreement” between the two leaders was scheduled to take place Thursday afternoon, raising expectations for a diplomatic breakthrough.
In an unusual act, the White House barred four American journalists from witnessing the Trump-Kim dinner. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, cited the “sensitivities” of the meeting and “shouting” at a previous appearance by Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim, when reporters were trying to ask about the Cohen testimony.
Photographers descended on Hanoi to capture the scene, including our White House photographer.
_____
3. Pakistan’s military said it shot down two Indian fighter jets that had entered its airspace and captured a pilot, escalating the conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbors and raising concerns that they could be veering toward another war.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India now faces a political crisis ahead of coming elections. Lawmakers from 21 opposition parties issued a statement condemning how he handled the current “Pakistani misadventure.”
In an Op-Ed, a Pakistani novelist argues that warmongers in the two countries are using social media to fan hostilities. “My generation of Pakistanis have fought for the right to speak,” she writes. “We are not afraid to lend our voices to that most righteous cause: peace.”
_____
4. Thousands of immigrant children said they were sexually abused in U.S. detention centers, the Justice Department revealed this week.
The government received more than 4,500 complaints in the past four years, with a rise during the Trump administration’s family separations. Records detail allegations that adult staff members had fondled and kissed minors, watched them shower, and raped them. Some reports were of abuses by other minors. Above, a boy from Honduras in a detention facility in 2014.
The news came as House Democrats issued subpoenas to three cabinet officials over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.
_____
5. For the first time, a black woman will be mayor of Chicago.
The job will go to either Lori Lightfoot or Toni Preckwinkle, the top vote-getters on the most crowded ballot in the city’s history. Their runoff is set for April 2.
Ms. Lightfoot, above right, was the chairwoman of a panel assigned to look at police accountability in the city, and she produced a scathing report accusing the department of systemic racism.
Ms. Preckwinkle, above left, is a political insider who stands out as a leading progressive on issues like criminal justice reform and affordable housing.
_____
6. The Republican operative whose illicit voter-turnout effort in North Carolina’s midterms led the state to order a new election was indicted in connection with absentee voter fraud — in previous votes.
L. McCrae Dowless Jr. was among five people charged in the case. Mr. Dowless faces the gravest counts, including felonious obstruction of justice.
The newly unsealed indictments are tied to the 2018 primary, when Mr. Dowless helped Mark Harris advance to the now discredited midterm election, and the 2016 election, when he worked for a different candidate.
_____
7. At the giant MWC Barcelona mobile show, attention is on foldable phones, above, and ultrafast wireless networks — not Huawei, the Chinese telecom company that is battling U.S. accusations of spying.
Of the more than 100,000 attendees and 2,400 companies at the event, most ignored the Trump administration’s efforts to spread suspicion of Huawei. In fact, Huawei had the biggest and most popular booth, which looked like a sprawling indoor city that took up half of a convention hall, our tech reporter said.
Check out the latest developments in the industry, including a smart mower, a social humanoid robot and the latest in 5G technologies.
_____
8. Cashew cream quesadillas, beet burgers and fruit-based sorbet. Oh, and hold the cheese sticks.
That’s what happens when day care and early-childhood education centers go vegan. A handful scattered across the country have done so.
The results: first a bit of chaos, and in one case a mini-revolt. But eventually, acceptance of the healthier, environmentally friendly options.
_____
9. For years, television excelled at reflecting on shameless narcissism. But recently, a few shows have taken a different approach: how adults (re)learn empathy and respect.
Like the mold of educational children’s shows, human decency is the premise. One of our television editors explores this idea through shows like “The Good Place,” above, “Russian Doll” and “Barry,” in which the struggle for goodness drives the plot.
“It’s almost as if, having tired of the many ways TV itself has contrived to break bad,” she says, “the writers sought to show that going back to basics can be equally effective.”
_____
10. Finally, we end with a tribute to America’s first lady of letters.
Toni Morrison released a new book of essays, “The Source of Self-Regard,” and James McBride, who reviewed it for The Times, voiced his gratitude for her influence on America and the healing power of her words.
“She is not one nation. She is every nation,” he wrote. Invoking Ella Fitzgerald and Nina Simone, he called Ms. Morrison “our greatest singer,” and this book “perhaps her most important song.”
We hope you find some harmony this evening.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Since the revelation in June 2017 that Luke Heimlich had pleaded guilty for sexually molesting his 6-year-old niece when he was 15, he has gone from a top college pitcher to an entirely shunned one.
All 30 major league teams have passed on drafting or signing Heimlich; the Kansas City Royals considered it last year but backed off when even the mere idea drew backlash.
But a team in the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol decided that Heimlich, now 23, merited an opportunity after serving his punishment and signed the left-hander, who has been throwing as hard as 94 miles per hour recently. During preseason training on Wednesday, , he threw a bullpen session in his new uniform.
It is unclear whether Heimlich, who has said that his criminal record has been expunged, will be able to stick with his new team, the Tecolotes de los Dos Laredos. His signing has drawn criticism from the victim’s family and a prominent activist, and the Tecolotes might become the second team whose deal with Heimlich has been nixed by their league.
“He’s not registered in the league,” Javier Salinas, the president of the Mexican league, said in Spanish in a phone interview from Japan, where a contingent of Mexican players were taking part in exhibition games. “We have to analyze his case. It’s very difficult to see him registered in the Mexican League.”
If he is blocked by the league office, it would not be the first time. In August, the Lamigo Monkeys in Taiwan reached a deal with Heimlich. But after a wave of criticism, the Chinese Professional Baseball League declared that Heimlich could not play there because of his criminal history and the effect on the league’s image.
Salinas said that the Mexican league, which is affiliated with Minor League Baseball and is considered Class AAA, had previously rejected players with checkered backgrounds involving problems like doping and gambling.
“The player has to have irreproachable conduct and be a good representative of the team and the league,” he said. “Like any league, we have to verify that all of our entrants have good conduct. We are an example to a lot of boys and girls. And we have to protect the image of the league.”
José Antonio Mansur, the owner of the Tecolotes, said it was a common practice for the league to have final say on a player’s contract. But he added that the league had taken the unusual step of asking Heimlich to sign a letter vowing good behavior, which he did on Wednesday.
“I’m not a judge,” Mansur said in Spanish in a phone interview from Laredo, Tex. “I’m just a businessman, and I’ll give him an opportunity. If he was guilty, he’s already been judged. I’m just looking from here on forward. He has this opportunity, just like any citizen who has made a mistake. Who hasn’t tripped up in life and has to get back up?”
Mansur said that a rejection of Heimlich’s contract would be discriminatory. Salinas said the league would make a decision “in the coming days.”
Last May, in an interview with The New York Times, Heimlich denied that he had committed the crime he admitted to, saying he had pleaded guilty to quickly dispense with the case and for the sake of the family. The girl’s mother, whose name is being withheld to protect the identity of the victim, has maintained that her daughter’s account is truthful.
As part of a plea deal, reached when Heimlich was 16, one of two charges was dropped, and he was placed on two years’ probation, took court-ordered classes, wrote a letter apologizing to his niece and was forced to register for five years as a Level 1 sex offender, a designation the State of Washington uses for someone considered of low risk to the community and unlikely to become a repeat offender. His juvenile records are sealed.
Heimlich’s case became public in 2017 when, while playing for Oregon State, he failed to update his whereabouts for a state registry of sex offenders, which led to a police citation. He pitched the next year at Oregon State.
Reached on Wednesday night, Heimlich declined to comment.
The victim’s mother was unaware of Heimlich’s new job until asked for comment. “My view on the subject has not changed nor will it: I don’t believe he deserves a spot on any professional team,” she wrote in a text message.
Brenda Tracy, one of Oregon’s most prominent victims’ rights activists, who frequently speaks about sexual abuse in sports and on college campuses, called Heimlich’s signing “really problematic.”
“This softens him,” she said. “Because someone is giving him a so-called second chance, it is paving the way for a team in Major League Baseball to sign him. They will say, ‘Mexico signed him, so we are not the only ones, we were not the first ones to do this,’ and that is wrong. It is ignoring the victim, and it is wrong.”
She added, “As I’ve said before, second chances do not have to include playing sports, especially pro sports, because in our society, we put these athletes up on a pedestal.”
The Tecolotes, who have an unusual arrangement with home stadiums on both sides of the border, got in touch with Heimlich’s agent in January through an intermediary. Talks became more serious last month before an agreement was reached. Mansur said the Tecolotes’ front office and coaching staff had watched video of Heimlich from college and of a tryout in front of scouts.
In vetting Heimlich, Mansur said the team had spoken with Heimlich’s representatives but not with Heimlich directly, though he said he planned to meet with him later Thursday in camp.
Mansur said he had consulted with his team’s lawyers and with his family, which runs the team. He did not speak with the victim or her family, he said, because they had already spoken to investigators and Heimlich had already served his penalty. Mansur said that he was aware that the Tecolotes were opening themselves up to criticism with the signing but that he believed Heimlich should not be punished for life.
“For the fans, I ask that we all analyze ourselves,” he said. “This is really a kid who wants to and has decided to move ahead with his life. And like he says, to be an example and to be a good kid. I think he merits our support.”
The league, however, may not feel the same way.
KOCHI, India — When Bishop Franco Mulakkal agreed to personally celebrate the First Communion for Darly’s son, a rare honor in their Catholic Church in India, the family was overcome with pride.
During the ceremony, Darly looked over at her sister, a nun who worked with the bishop, to see her eyes spilling over with tears — tears of joy, she figured. But only later would she learn of her sister’s allegation that the night before, the bishop had summoned the nun to his quarters and raped her. The family says that was the first assault in a two-year ordeal in which the prelate raped her 13 times.
The bishop, who has maintained his innocence, will be charged and face trial by a special prosecutor on accusations of rape and intimidation, the police investigating the case said. But the church acknowledged the nun’s accusations only after five of her fellow nuns mutinied and publicly rallied to her side to draw attention to her yearlong quest for justice, despite what they described as heavy pressure to remain silent.
“We used to see the fathers of the church as equivalent to God, but not anymore,” said Darly, her voice shaking with emotion. “How can I tell my son about this, that the person teaching us the difference between right and wrong gave him his First Communion after committing such a terrible sin?”
The case in India, in the southern state of Kerala, is part of a larger problem in the church that Pope Francis addressed on Tuesday for the first time after decades of silence from the Vatican. He acknowledged that sexual abuse of nuns by clerics is a continuing problem in the church. 
At a time when church attendance is low in the West, and empty parishes and monasteries are being shuttered across Europe and America, the Vatican increasingly relies on places like India to keep the faith growing.
“India’s clergy and nuns are hugely important to the Catholic Church in the West. The enthusiasm of Christians in Asia stands in stark contrast to the lower-temperature religion in the West,” said Diarmaid MacCulloch, a professor of church history at the University of Oxford.
But the scandal in Kerala is dividing India’s Catholics, who number about 20 million despite being a relatively small minority of a vast population.
And there may be more to come: More nuns have stepped forward to report sexual abuse at the hands of priests, the police in Kerala State say. And in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district, four priests have been accused of blackmailing women during confession, using the information to coerce them into sex, according to Sudhakaran Pillai, the head of the local crime branch.
“If this case goes ahead, it will be a new beginning and priests and bishops will be forced to be held accountable,” said the Rev. Augustine Vattoly, a priest in Kerala who was an early supporter of the nun’s accusations and said he was ordered by his superiors to back away or face repercussions.
“The church is losing its moral authority,” Father Vattoly said. “We are losing the faith of the people. The church will become a place without people if this continues. Just like in Europe, the young will no longer come here.”
Details of the nun’s accusations came from interviews with law enforcement officials and from her family and the five other nuns who saw the saga unfold inside the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, which is based in India but answers to the Vatican.
Copies of the official complaints the nun addressed to church authorities by email and post were also provided to The New York Times. (The nun is not being named and her sister is being identified only by her first name because under Indian law, the media, including international news organizations, cannot identify rape victims.)
The nun’s family accuses Bishop Mulakkal, 54, of raping her repeatedly over a two-year period, dating from May 5, 2014.
The bishop could not be reached for comment, but church officials and the Kerala police say that he maintains he is innocent.
The nun, who belongs to the Missionaries of Jesus religious order, first informed church authorities of the assaults in January 2017, approaching nearly a dozen church officials, including bishops, a cardinal and representatives of the Vatican. Some cautioned her to wait, assuring her that the church would take action. Other officials forbade her to go to the police, her family said.
But the only action came last September, after the church’s silence led five other nuns to mutiny and come to Kerala’s High Court to stage a days-long protest.
They sat in front of a large poster featuring the Pieta statue, the famous sculpture housed in St. Peter’s Basilica depicting Mary holding the limp body of Jesus in her lap after his crucifixion. Instead of Jesus, the poster featured a nun’s lifeless body. A placard read “Justice for nuns.”
About two weeks after the protests started, the Vatican stripped Bishop Mulakkal of his administrative duties. The next day, on Sept. 21, Kerala’s police arrested him.
“Retrospectively, the church should have taken action quicker if we had known a crime had really happened. If she thought the church was not acting properly, she should have gone to the police sooner,” said the Rev. Paul Karendan, a spokesman for the archdiocese that oversees the headquarters of the Syro-Malabar Church.
Father Karendan said that the church was slow to act at first, as they thought the nun was resisting transfer orders given by Bishop Mulakkal.
In Kerala, it is not uncommon for families to have one or two daughters take vows as nuns. Statues of Mary and Jesus line streets here and even Mass on a weekday is well attended.
India’s Christians, only about 2 percent of the population, tend to stand together in the face of any crisis.
India’s governing bloc, the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is rooted in Hindu nationalism. In that environment, the scandal in Kerala has pitted Christians who believe the case is a stark call for reform within the church against those who want to maintain unity out of fear.
Mary Mavely, a 36-year-old Catholic in the capital, Delhi, said she was willing to give the nuns the benefit of the doubt as opposed to her mother, who immediately stood by the bishop.
“For my mother, she thinks that in the current political climate if we put the church in a bad light it is an opportunity for B.J.P. to blow things out of proportion. For me, I want it treated as a criminal offense and we should let the court decide,” Ms. Mavely said.
Bishop Mulakkal received a loving welcome when he was released on bail in October, cheered and showered with flower petals when he returned to his diocese. His church posted a large banner featuring his photo and proclaiming a “hearty welcome.”
A senior police officer investigating the case said he believed that authorities had sufficient evidence to prove that Bishop Mulakkal both raped the nun and then intimidated her family and the families of the nuns who began the protest to silence them. The officer spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the case, as the final police report will be filed later this month before the trial can begin.
“We are broken. The church we have given our lives to won’t even give an ear to us,” said Anupama Kelamangalathuveli, a nun who served at the convent at the same time as the nun who said she had been raped.
“This fight isn’t just for us,” she added. “The church needs to listen to women and not just the priests and bishops.”
In November 2017, Cardinal George Alencherry discouraged the nun from taking her case to the media or police, according to her family and the other nuns. Representatives of Cardinal Alencherry did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
Desperate, the nun, a member of the Missionaries of Jesus religious order, decided to take her case directly to the Vatican by writing the pope’s representative in India, Archbishop Giambattista Diquattro.
“No sooner I reached the room than he pulled me toward him. I was numbed and terrified by his act. I took all efforts to get out, but in vain. He raped me brutally,” reads a letter the nun wrote to Archbishop Diquattro on January 28, 2018.
The letter went on to accuse Bishop Mulakkal of intimidating her and others into silence, and to explain how she had complained to various church authorities who failed to act.
Multiple emails and phone calls to Archbishop Diquattro requesting comment went unanswered.
Through more than a year of efforts to receive help within the church, she confided in five other nuns who had at one point lived with her at her convent, the St. Francis Mission Home, tucked away amid thick jungle in rural Kerala. Then they reached a breaking point.
In April last year, the five, some who had been moved to other convents, defied church rules to slip away from their residences across India, taking buses and trains to travel hundreds of miles to join their sister and support her.
The nuns said they decided to go public only after Bishop Mulakkal filed several police cases against them and their families in June, accusing them of plotting his murder. The police said his accusations had been dismissed.
The nun wrote a second letter to Archbishop Diquattro on June 25, days after Bishop Mulakkal filed his accusations with police.
“I was waiting for the Catholic Church to give me justice,” she wrote, but as her situation had grown worse, “I am forced to approach for the legal procedures,” read a copy of the email, written in halting English.
Three days after sending the letter, she went to the police on June 28 and filed a complaint accusing Bishop Mulakkal of rape.
As the weeks went by, the church ordered the nuns to leave St. Francis and return to their respective convents.
Worried they would be evicted, and with the police slow to respond, the nuns decided in early September to take the nearly two-hour drive to Kochi, a major city in Kerala, and protest outside the High Court. When they returned the next day with their placards, they were surprised to see dozens of churchgoers, activists and even priests, holding their own signs demanding Bishop Mulakkal be held accountable.
The nuns are now filing multiple civil cases against church officials in India, claiming they tried to intimidate them to drop the case or ignored the rape accusations. The nuns are still at St. Francis, ignoring repeated orders issued by church authorities last month to disband. On Saturday, with the nuns planning another public protest, the church revoked those orders — giving the nuns a small victory.
“We took a vow to be in a congregation — to make the congregation our family,” said Sister Josephine Villoonickal, one of the nuns, who had been ordered to return to her convent in northern Jharkhand, about 1,500 miles away. “They are now trying to destroy this family.”
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. 
The following exchange between Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, and Livia Albeck-Ripka, a Times reporter based in Melbourne, Australia, examines the challenges of reporting on the trials of Cardinal George Pell, the highest ranking Catholic clergyman convicted of sexually abusing children. 
On Wednesday, he was sentenced to six years in prison. 
Damien: When I first saw Cardinal George Pell walking into court many months ago, his broad shoulders slumped, his eyes down, I immediately thought of all the Catholic priests I knew growing up in Massachusetts.
One of the first stories I ever wrote involved wrestling with what happened to Father Ron, a priest I had known as a child who was later convicted of taking pictures of a partially dressed 10-year-old boy in a YMCA locker room.
But this time, Australia prevented that kind of public discussion: A judge’s suppression order prohibited publishing details on the proceedings while they were going on. The restrictions were meant to keep the jury in a second and related trial from being prejudiced by information gleaned from the first trial.
The result was a media blackout — starting in April, when the case was sent to trial — for the highest-ranking Vatican official to be tried for abusing children.
Australian and international news outlets with offices in the country were all silenced, including The Times, Reuters and The Associated Press. Anything published online and visible in Australia, including basic information like the number of complainants and what exactly he had been accused of, could lead to hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines and jail time for journalists.
Even telling readers about the suppression order itself, because it was a court document related to the proceedings, would be seen as breaking the law.
And that was just one layer of the judicial secrecy.
Livia: Cardinal Pell’s first trial ended with a hung jury. It was hard to know why, just as it was hard to know what to expect from the do-over, because the case turned almost entirely on the credibility of one complainant whose testimony the public did not see or hear.
That complainant is now 35. But in 1996, he was one of two 13-year-old boys who ducked into a room at the back of St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Melbourne after a Sunday mass, where they said the Cardinal found them and molested them. 
One boy, the main complainant, reported that Cardinal Pell pulled aside his vestments and forced his penis into the boy’s mouth. The second complainant died a few years ago, leaving only one victim for the jury to hear.
And yet only snippets of his firsthand testimony were ever shared beyond the judge, the police, the legal teams and the 12 jurors, in what Australian law deems a necessary measure to protect a victim’s identity.
Reporters furiously transcribed the only excerpts from his account that were read in court by the prosecution, which emphasized his reaction: “I was young and I didn’t really know what had happened to me; I didn’t know if it was normal.”
Repeatedly, we asked the court, together with other publications, for access to a video of the man’s testimony, or audio, or a transcript.
He was no longer a child and his identity could still be protected. We wanted to understand the most important piece of evidence. We wanted to be able to explain to the public how the judge, prosecutors and defense lawyers dealt with his account, to ensure public accountability.
But the judge, Peter Kidd, refused.
Damien: After covering the first trial, which ended with a hung jury and a few jurors crying as they departed, I didn’t expect a guilty verdict.
From what I had seen over the handful of months that the case played out, the prosecution seemed less organized and persuasive than the defense, and Cardinal Pell did not look particularly worried.
On December 14, that all changed.
Livia: The jury had been deliberating for just over three days when we received word from the County Court of Victoria’s media team that a verdict was “imminent.”
In the courtroom, Cardinal Pell’s usual stoic demeanor seemed to break for the first time. He stared nervously ahead, holding a fist below his chin. As throughout the trial, he wore a slightly oversized suit and a clerical collar.
His defense lawyer, Robert Richter, sat at the bar with his hands clasped in front of his face.
“Mr. Foreman and members of the jury, have you agreed upon your verdict?” asked the judge’s assistant. The foreman responded, “We have.”
Each charge was read out, and met with a response from the foreman: “Guilty.” Gasps were heard. The cardinal slumped forward.
I sent a message to Damien: “GUILTY.” His reply included an expletive.
I went home and starting writing; we had no idea what or when we would publish, possibly breaking the suppression order, and the law.
Damien: We had some elements of the story pre-written and it wasn’t long before we had a draft that, if Cardinal Pell had been charged in the United States, we would have immediately published online.
But the suppression order complicated everything. I talked with our editors in Hong Kong, then began an email chain with a group of senior editors in New York. Though we’d all been dealing with the Pell trial for a while by that point, we were still unsure about whether to just publish or find some way to abide by the order.
We explored having the story written from Rome, but even then, our lawyers in Australia told us, the judge would likely hold us — the local reporters — in contempt. Any detail reported from the court would make us vulnerable.
Next, with help from software developers in the newsroom, we considered geo-blocking — keeping an online story out of Australia.
That’s what at least one outlet, The Daily Beast, did. But it wasn’t clear whether that would work for us; the ubiquity of The Times and our broader readership made it hard to imagine a scenario in which someone in Australia didn’t see the online version and start sharing it on social media, making us subject to the court’s suppression order.
Our lawyers also made clear to us that the judge would be looking for someone to make an example of. The court had already asked us once before to take down an article published before the suppression order mentioning that there were two trials for Pell. We had refused, but clearly we were on the judge’s radar.
I told our editors I was willing to go to jail if they decided we wanted to test the suppression order, but in the end, after discussions that reached the highest levels of The Times, we ran a story in print only on Dec. 14.
It carried a “New York Times” byline under the headline: “Australia Cardinal Found Guilty of Abusing Boys in 1996.”
The story did not publish online. We also cut off access to our syndication partners in Australia to ensure that they did not publish what we wrote.
I initially felt conflicted about whether it was the right call. I’d seen how secrecy contributed to the problem of sexual abuse in the church in Massachusetts.
But ultimately (along with our editors) I concluded that abiding by the order was our best unfortunate option — for reasons both legal and ethical. The complainants involved in the second trial did not want their case jeopardized, and with most of our competitors abiding by the order, would it have been right, legally or morally, if The Times had played a role in that by disregarding an order meant to ensure a fair trial?
Damien and Livia:
What we didn’t know then was that the second trial was doomed to fail no matter what.
More than two months after Cardinal Pell’s conviction, an assessment of the evidence for a second trial, involving allegations against Cardinal Pell from the 1970s, began.
Prosecutors had hoped to show that his history of abuse proved that Cardinal Pell had a tendency toward molesting children. Under Australian law, a judge may admit such evidence only if its evidentiary value outweighs the risk of prejudice to the defendant.
The judge ruled that it did not.
That led the prosecution to drop the second trial, and the suppression order to be lifted. For the first time, reporters tweeted from the courtroom with news of the guilty verdict from December.
We (finally) published a full version online of our story about the verdict. What had been suppressed was suddenly widely known.
The following day, Cardinal Pell was taken into custody to await his sentencing.
His lawyers have said they plan to appeal, and several high profile politicians — including former Prime Minister John Howard — have questioned the verdict.
The Vatican has also signaled that it will wait for the appeals process to play out before making a final decision on Cardinal Pell’s fate within the church.
Perhaps that’s only fair, but would the public reaction have been different if the trial had been covered daily and extensively as it happened? To what extent does the enforced secrecy blunt the impact of a jury’s conclusion, and protect a guilty man’s image?
We may never know the answers to these questions. But the mix of secrecy and justice continues to play out.
Last month, the court refused to grant us access to the main complainant’s victim impact statement. 
This week, Cardinal Pell was sentenced to six years in prison. And the court allowed the sentencing to be broadcast on live television.
Marveling at the mysterious sanctum that his new book explores, the French journalist Frédéric Martel writes that “even in San Francisco’s Castro” there aren’t “quite as many gays.”
He’s talking about the Vatican. And he’s delivering a bombshell.
Although the book’s publishers have kept it under tight wraps, I obtained a copy in advance of its release next Thursday. It will come out in eight languages and 20 countries, under the title “Sodoma,” as in Sodom, in Western Europe and “In the Closet of the Vatican” in the United States, Britain and Canada. 
It includes the claim that about 80 percent of the male Roman Catholic clergy members who work at the Vatican, around the pope, are gay. It contends that the more showily homophobic a Vatican official is, the more likely he belongs to that crowd, and that the higher up the chain of command you go, the more gays you find. And not all of them are celibate. Not by a long shot.
I’m supposed to cheer, right? I’m an openly gay man. I’m a sometime church critic. Hooray for the exposure of hypocrisy in high places and the affirmation that some of our tormentors have tortured motives. Thank heaven for the challenge to their moral authority. Let the sun in. Let the truth out.
But I’m bothered and even a little scared. Whatever Martel’s intent, “In the Closet of the Vatican” may be less a constructive reckoning than a stockpile of ammunition for militant right-wing Catholics who already itch to conduct a witch hunt for gay priests, many of whom are exemplary — and chaste — servants of the church. Those same Catholics oppose sensible and necessary reforms, and will point to the book’s revelations as proof that the church is already too permissive and has lost its dignity and its way.
[Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]
Although Martel himself is openly gay, he sensationalizes gayness by devoting his inquiry to Catholic officials who have had sex with men, not ones who have had sex with women. The promise of celibacy that priests make forbids all sexual partners, and what violates Catholic teaching isn’t just gay sex but sex outside marriage. In that context, Martel’s focus on homosexuality buys into the notion that it’s especially troubling and titillating.
His tone doesn’t help. “The world I am discovering, with its 50 shades of gay, is beyond comprehension,” he writes. It will seem to some readers “a fairy tale.” He challenges the conventional wisdom that Pope Francis, who has detractors all around him, is “among the wolves,” clarifying, “It’s not quite true: he’s among the queens.” Maybe it’s better in the original French, but this language is at once profoundly silly and deeply offensive.
The sourcing of much of “In the Closet of the Vatican” is vague, and other Vatican experts told me that the 80 percent figure is neither knowable nor credible.
“It’s not a scientifically based accusation — it’s an ideologically based one,” said the Rev. Thomas Reese, a senior analyst for Religion News Service who visits the Vatican frequently and has written several highly regarded books about the Roman Catholic hierarchy. “One of the problems is that Catholic bishops have never allowed any kind of research in this area. They don’t want to know how many gay priests there are.” Independent studies put the percentage of gay men among Catholic priests in the United States at 15 percent to 60 percent.
In a telephone interview on Thursday, Martel stressed that the 80 percent isn’t his estimate but that of a former priest at the Vatican whom he quotes by name in the book. But he presents that quotation without sufficient skepticism and, in his own words, writes, “It’s a big majority.”
He says that “In the Closet of the Vatican” is informed by about 1,500 interviews over four years and the contributions of scores of researchers  and other assistants. I covered the Vatican for The Times for nearly two years, and the book has a richness of detail that’s persuasive. It’s going to be widely discussed and hotly debated.
It depicts different sexual subcultures, including clandestine meetings between Vatican officials and young heterosexual Muslim men in Rome who work as prostitutes. It names names, and while many belong to Vatican officials and other priests who are dead or whose sexual identities have come under public scrutiny before, Martel also lavishes considerable energy on the suggestion that Francis’ predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, and other towering figures in the church are gay.
Perhaps the most vivid of the double lives under Martel’s gaze is that of Cardinal Alfonso López Trujillo of Colombia, who died a little over a decade ago. According to the book, he prowled the ranks of seminarians and young priests for men to seduce and routinely hired male prostitutes, sometimes beating them up after sex. All the while he promoted the church’s teaching that all gay men are “objectively disordered” and embraced its ban on priests who are believed to have “deep-seated homosexual tendencies,” whether they act on them or not.
Part of my concern about the book is the timing of its release, which coincides precisely with an unprecedented meeting at the Vatican about sexual abuse in the church. For the first time, the pope has summoned the presidents of every Catholic bishops conference around the world to discuss this topic alone. But the book “is also bound to shift attention away from child abuse and onto gay priests in general, once again falsely conflating in people’s minds homosexuality and pedophilia,” said the Rev. James Martin, a best-selling Jesuit author, in a recent tweet. He’s right.
The book doesn’t equate them, and in fact makes the different, important point that the church’s culture of secrecy — a culture created in part by gay priests’ need to conceal who they are — works against the exposure of molesters who are guilty of crimes.
As David Clohessy, a longtime advocate for survivors of sexual abuse by priests, said to me on the phone a few days ago: “Many priests have a huge disincentive to report sexual misdeeds by colleagues. They know they’re vulnerable to being blackballed. It’s celibacy and the secretive, rigid, ancient all-male hierarchy that contributes to the cover-up and, therefore, more abuse.” Abuse has no sexual orientation, a fact made clear by many cases of priests having sex with girls and adult women, including nuns, whose victimization by priests was publicly acknowledged by Pope Francis for the first time early this month.
But that’s a crucial subtlety that’s too easily lost in the thicket of exclamation points in “In the Closet of the Vatican.” And more people will read the racy headlines about the book than read the book itself. What they may take away is this: Catholic priests are twisted characters. And gay men are creatures of stealth and agents of deception who band together in eccentric societies with odd rituals.
I asked Martel what his aim was. “I’m a journalist,” he said. “My only goal is to write stories. I’m not a Catholic. I don’t have any motive of revenge. My concern is not that the church will be better or worse. I’m outside of the church.”
I asked him if he worried about homophobes weaponizing the book. If they read it correctly, he answered, they’ll realize that rooting out gays would mean ridding the church of some of their heroes, who inveigh against homosexuality as a way of denying and camouflaging who they really are. The cardinals most accepting of gays, he said, are those who are probably straight.
All else aside, the book speaks to the enormous and seemingly growing tension between a church that frequently vilifies and marginalizes gay men and a priesthood dense with them. “This fact hangs in the air as a giant, unsustainable paradox,” wrote Andrew Sullivan, who is Catholic and gay, in an excellent cover story for New York magazine last month. It explains why so many gay men entered the priesthood, especially decades ago: They didn’t feel safe or comfortable in a society that ostracized them. Their sense of being outsiders gave them a more spiritual bent and greater desire to help others in need.
They weren’t pulling off some elaborate ruse or looking for the clerical equivalent of a bathhouse. They were trying, psychologically and emotionally, to survive. Many still are, and I fear that “In the Closet of the Vatican” won’t help.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. The U.S. and Canada, some of the last holdouts, grounded all Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of a crash. That essentially pulls the plane from almost everywhere in the world. Above, a Max 8 at La Guardia Airport in New York on Tuesday.
Though no cause in the Ethiopian Airlines crash has been determined yet, one of the pilots reported “flight-control problems” to air traffic controllers, requesting permission to turn back minutes before the crash.
President Trump issued the ban himself, reversing an earlier decision by American aviation regulators to keep the planes in service. Boeing said it supported the decision to ground the planes. One big open question for the American company: What happens to the 5,000 open orders for the Max 8 jets?
Here’s a simple guide to all the developments in the unfolding story.
_____
2. A criminal investigation is underway into deals Facebook struck with tech companies that gave them broad access to millions of users’ personal information.
A federal grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices that had entered into partnerships with Facebook. Above, outside Facebook’s headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif.
“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement to The Times. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”
Facebook formed sharing deals with more than 150 companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, and has phased out most of those partnerships over the past two years.
_____
3. Paul Manafort’s total prison time is now 7.5 years after a second judge handed down a sentence against him in one of the special counsel’s highest-profile cases. Above, Mr. Manafort last April.
Mr. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced to just under four years last week in a financial fraud case. The additional sentence encompassed a host of crimes, including money-laundering and obstruction of justice.
“It is hard to overstate the number of lies and the amount of fraud and the amount of money involved,” Judge Amy Berman Jackson said, reeling off Mr. Manafort’s various offenses.
Just as the second ruling came down, New York indicted Mr. Manafort on 16 additional felony charges. If convicted, he could go to prison even if the president pardons him.
_____
4. Parents arrested. College campuses reeling. Fresh questions about standardized testing. The fallout from the college admissions bribery scandal is spreading.
A day after 50 people were indicted in a sweeping Justice Department investigation, businesses, students and schools were beginning to assess the damage and distance themselves from the accused. While lawbreaking in the sector is rare, the shadowy, and completely legal, world of high-priced college consultants is nothing new.
The indictments revealed two back doors available to wealthy parents, like Gordon Caplan, pictured above leaving federal court in Manhattan on Tuesday. One involved bribing university officials to pass off applicants as athletic recruits; the other used brazen cheating on standardized exams. And both schemes had two Hollywood stars playing a role, prosecutors said.
Our Opinion section has multiple takes on the scandal from the columnists Frank Bruni and Farhad Manjoo, a humor writer and more.
_____
5. News in crime and punishment:
Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced a moratorium on capital punishment, granting a temporary reprieve to the 737 inmates on the state’s death row, the largest in the Western Hemisphere. The execution chamber at San Quentin prison near San Francisco, above, will also be closed under the executive order.
Separately, 55,000 old rape kits around the country were finally tested with funds provided by the Manhattan district attorney’s office, resulting in the conviction of 64 attackers.
_____
6. Dozens of children are trapped in a school after a building collapse in Lagos, Nigeria.
Rescuers scrambled to pull children out from under the wreckage of a three-story building that fell in on itself. The building housed apartments as well as a nursery and a primary school. Hundreds of people had gathered at the site awaiting news of their children.
Officials said at least 8 people had been killed and workers had pulled at least 37 people alive from the site.
_____
7. The F.D.A. is moving toward restricting sales of flavored e-cigarettes to try to curb teenage vaping.
The agency proposed requiring retailers to wall off flavored e-cigarettes to prevent sales to underage smokers. Menthol, mint and tobacco-flavored e-cigarettes would be allowed to stay out in the open. The proposal also includes a ban on flavored cigars smoked by 1.3 million youths. Above, a vape store in New York’s East Village.
The move is opposed by many convenience stores, but some public health advocates think it doesn’t go far enough. The proposal must undergo a 30-day comment period before it can be finalized.
_____
8. Call them the new “mafias.”
With Uber, Airbnb and other tech giants readying to go public, Silicon Valley’s often-incestuous circle of life is ready to start another cycle.
In this model, employees of tech start-ups frequently leave once they have been enriched by their firms’ initial public offerings and begin new ventures. Then networks of alumni from these companies — called mafias — support their peers’ new businesses with hiring, advice and money.
In other tech news, here’s a guide to totally reclaiming your privacy in 15 not-so-simple steps. For one man it involved selling his house and car, setting up a new corporate identity and giving himself a fake name for his new neighbors.
_____
9. Movie review sites like Rotten Tomatoes are often inundated with users trying to manipulate a film’s box office success. And then came “Captain Marvel.”
Even before the superhero movie — starring Brie Larson, above — was released, audience reviewers gave it negative feedback, prompting sites like Rotten Tomatoes to change the rules on their platforms.
We also have an interview with Amy Schumer, who told our comedy critic that her new Netflix special, “Growing,” was the most difficult challenge of her career. It airs March 19.
_____
10. Finally, chasing a waterfall theory.
Scientists had long assumed that waterfalls always formed from geological or climate-driven changes. But by building a scaled-down river in a laboratory, a research team demonstrated that waterfalls can bring themselves into existence without any outside help. Above, a waterfall in Tal, Nepal.
By better understanding how waterfalls can form, the new study may prompt scientists to reconsider how our planet shaped itself, and look at geology with greater precision.
Have a beautiful night.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
HONG KONG — A leading K-pop singer has been formally named as a suspect in an investigation into accusations of prostitution and sexual misconduct at nightclubs in South Korea.
The police in Seoul, South Korea, said that the singer, Lee Seung-hyun, 28, who performs under the name Seungri and is a member of the boy band Big Bang, was suspected of “offering sexual services” in 2015.
Local news reports, citing what they said were leaked posts from a messaging app, said Mr. Lee was accused of arranging for investors to receive sexual favors at a nightclub called Arena.
Mr. Lee has denied the accusations against him, but said that he would nonetheless retire from the entertainment scene to protect the reputation of his band and of the talent agency that manages it, YG Entertainment.
“I will take the investigation seriously to clear all the allegations,” he wrote in an Instagram post on Monday.
Mr. Lee is not in custody, and YG Entertainment said he would begin his mandatory military service on March 25. The police said they had made arrangements for the investigation to continue after he enlisted.
The investigation appears to have begun after video circulated online that was said to have shown a man being assaulted by employees at another nightclub, Burning Sun, which Mr. Lee has promoted.
According to local media reports, the man said he was trying to defend a woman who had been molested at the club.
Lee Moon-ho, the head of Burning Sun, was questioned by the police for 10 hours, according to local news reports.
In a statement he posted to Instagram before deleting his personal account, he said that many unfounded rumors were circulating about misconduct at the club — he cited claims of police collusion, drugging and sexual assault of women, and drug sales — but that the alleged assault on the man was the only confirmed episode.
“On the cases related to Burning Sun that I did not know about, I will actively participate in the investigations to ensure that the truth is quickly uncovered and I am making efforts to prevent these issues from arising again,” he wrote.
Prostitution is illegal in South Korea, but businessmen are thought to sometimes arrange illicit sexual encounters in exchange for deals.
As Seungri, Lee Seung-hyun has an outsize presence in Seoul’s night life and music scene, and also has his own chain of ramen restaurants. He has cultivated an image evoking F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Jay Gatsby, with a solo tour and album under the title “The Great Seungri.”
Representatives from Arena declined to comment. Spokesmen for Burning Sun could not be reached for further comment; a representative was quoted in the South Korean daily Kyunghyang Shinmun as saying that Seungri was part of its management, but not its owner.
The chief executive of YG Entertainment said in a statement that Seungri was no longer executive director at the club, and that he would be resigning from his business roles before he enlisted in the military.
The accusations have rocked fans from South Korea and abroad. Some defended the star and lamented his downfall, while more than 200,000 others signed a petition calling for the police to punish him, and to act on other allegations of corruption and drug crimes against women at adult entertainment venues.
“We demand self-reflection among male celebrities who are the perpetrators and abettors of rape culture; who saw women as sexual tools rather than human beings to be respected, actively participated in crime or condoned, assisted or enjoyed it,” Digital Sexual Crime Out, a feminist activist group, said in a statement. “We also demand self-reflection among men who related to these male celebrities and consumed the case as simple gossip.”
The woman who has accused Virginia’s lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, of raping her said that a former N.B.A. player, Corey Maggette, raped her at Duke University 20 years ago and that school officials did not pursue the claim, according to a childhood friend of the woman and Facebook messages the woman exchanged with another friend.
Mr. Maggette, who attended Duke for one year, 1998-99, and reached the national championship game, played in the N.B.A. until 2013 and has since worked as a television analyst for Fox Sports.
Mr. Maggette denied the accusation through a spokesman Monday evening. “It has only been through media accounts and a statement from Meredith Watson’s lawyer that I first learned or heard of anything about these sexual assault allegations,” Mr. Maggette said in a statement. “I have never sexually assaulted anyone in my life and I completely and categorically deny any such charge.”
A spokeswoman for Fox Sports West, where Mr. Maggette is a basketball analyst, said in an email, “Fox Sports takes allegations of misconduct seriously, and we are looking into the matter. We have no further comment at this time.”
Nancy Erika Smith, the lawyer for the woman who accused Mr. Maggette and Mr. Fairfax, Meredith Watson, said in a statement Friday that Ms. Watson had been raped by a Duke basketball player during her sophomore year but did not name the player. Ms. Smith also said that Ms. Watson had reported her rape to an unspecified dean at the university, but that the dean had “discouraged her from pursuing the claim further.”
Duke has acknowledged it is investigating an allegation that a player raped the woman, but a spokesman for the university declined to comment on the identity of the player or the assertion that the university failed to act on the accusation.
“We are in the process of gathering information to determine what policies and procedures were in place during the time period in which these events are alleged to have occurred, and whether they were activated and followed,” said Michael Schoenfeld, a spokesman for Duke. “We are not able to provide further information or comment on any individual at this time.”
Years before Ms. Watson came forward as the second woman to publicly accuse Mr. Fairfax of sexual assault, inflaming a political crisis in Virginia, she told multiple friends that she had been raped by Mr. Maggette, according to one of those friends and Facebook messages exchanged with another.
R. Stanton Jones, a partner at the law firm Arnold & Porter in Washington who grew up with Ms. Watson in Baltimore, said she told him that she had been raped by Mr. Maggette. She told Mr. Jones about it while he and Ms. Watson were both home for the summer in 2001, he said.
“Meredith told me she had been raped twice at Duke,” Mr. Jones said. “And she told me that one of the men who raped her was the Duke basketball player Corey Maggette. That was a name I knew because I’m a basketball fan.”
Mr. Jones, who did not attend Duke, said he had not had much contact with Ms. Watson in the last decade “other than occasionally liking a Facebook post.” He said he was coming forward now because it “seemed like the right thing to do.”
The longtime coach of Duke’s men’s basketball team, Mike Krzyzewski, said after his team’s victory against Virginia on Saturday night that he had “no knowledge” of the situation and that he had learned of it only from news media reports Friday.
Karen Kessler, a spokeswoman for Ms. Watson, provided The New York Times with a Facebook message exchange between Ms. Watson and a friend from March 2017. Ms. Kessler declined to identify the friend, whose name was blacked out in the messages, and The Times was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the messages.
In the messages, Ms. Watson expressed disgust at a newspaper article written about Mr. Fairfax, who had already announced his bid for lieutenant governor. After the friend asked Ms. Watson whether she had reported the rape, Ms. Watson responded: “You know I didn’t report it after how the university responded when I reported Corey Maggette.”
Ms. Kessler said that after being discouraged by the dean, Ms. Watson decided not to report her accusation to the police.
Mr. Krzyzewski — who is in his 39th season coaching the Blue Devils and is college basketball’s leader in wins — and Duke have held themselves up not only as consummate winners but as moral exemplars.
No Duke player under Mr. Krzyzewski was kicked off the team until early 2015, when a player was dismissed for unspecified struggles to meet “necessary obligations.” The university’s student newspaper, The Duke Chronicle, reported that the player, Rasheed Sulaimon, had been accused of sexual assault by two students, allegations the athletics department had been aware of as early as 10 months before terminating his participation with the team. (Sulaimon was not charged, and later played for Maryland.)
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Harvey Weinstein has started to cast his new “dream team” of lawyers to represent him against sexual assault charges in Manhattan, and two of them recently represented one of his most vocal accusers, the actress Rose McGowan.
Mr. Weinstein, the movie mogul who became a symbol of the #MeToo movement after dozens of women accused him of sexual misconduct, has assembled a team including a former Manhattan prosecutor and three litigators with a history of representing celebrity clients, a person familiar with the discussions said.
Two of the lawyers, Jose Baez and Ronald S. Sullivan Jr., also represented Ms. McGowan when she faced drug possession charges in Virginia. Ms. McGowan has been an outspoken critic of the movie producer and was one of the first women to come forward and accuse him of sexual misconduct. (She said Mr. Weinstein assaulted her in 1997, but charges were never filed.)
Still, Mr. Sullivan said he and Mr. Baez did not believe that representing Mr. Weinstein after handling Ms. McGowan’s defense would pose an ethical issue because the cases are unrelated. “We are certain no conflict of interest exists,” he said.
“Mr. Weinstein steadfastly maintains his innocence in this matter and we are looking forward to assisting Mr. Weinstein in his defense,” Mr. Sullivan said in a statement in which he confirmed that Mr. Weinstein had hired him and Mr. Baez.
“This is an egregious conflict of interest,” Ms. McGowan told The Times in an email. “Baez is still listed as my attorney in the VA matter. Baez did nothing for my case and now I know why. A truly terrible human and a disgrace of a lawyer.”
The other two lawyers who are joining Mr. Weinstein’s defense are Pamela Robillard Mackey, a Colorado defense lawyer, and Duncan Levin, a former New York prosecutor, the person with knowledge of the matter said.
The four will replace Benjamin Brafman, the Manhattan defense lawyer with whom Mr. Weinstein parted ways last week. Mr. Brafman declined to comment.
The New York Post first reported Mr. Weinstein’s new team.
Mr. Baez and Mr. Sullivan will serve as Mr. Weinstein’s lead co-counsels, according to a second person with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations.
It is possible that additional lawyers could be added to the team, the person said.
Mr. Levin is a former federal prosecutor and a former senior assistant to the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He will provide strategic advice to the other three lawyers on the team, who have little experience with New York law or Mr. Vance’s office, the person said.
While New York City is home to many skilled trial lawyers, including those well versed in handling complicated high-profile cases, Mr. Levin is the only one of the four lawyers Mr. Weinstein tapped to join his team who is based there.
“We’re not that different from all others, but there are enough quirks in New York law that having a good local counsel is wisdom,” said Paul L. Shechtman, a longtime criminal defense lawyer in Manhattan.
Mr. Weinstein began to make calls to other lawyers last month after a judge rejected Mr. Brafman’s argument that the case against Mr. Weinstein should be dismissed. Since then, he has pursued a plan to follow the template set out by O.J. Simpson in his murder trial in 1995, assembling a group with a variety of specialties.
[Read more on Harvey Weinstein’s desire for a “dream team defense.”]
With his new team, Mr. Weinstein has a set of lawyers with experience in high-profile cases.
Mr. Baez, a lawyer based in Florida, represented Casey Anthony, who was acquitted in 2011 of charges that she murdered her 2-year-old daughter, Caylee.
He also worked with Mr. Sullivan, a professor at Harvard Law School, to defend the football player Aaron Hernandez, who was acquitted in a double murder trial in Massachusetts in 2017 and later committed suicide. (Neither Mr. Baez nor Mr. Sullivan represented Mr. Hernandez in his murder trial in 2015, when he was found guilty in a conviction that was later nullified.)
Bruce Green, a legal ethics expert at the Fordham University School of Law, said that Mr. Baez’s and Mr. Sullivan’s past representation of Ms. McGowan would only pose a conflict of interest if she were to be called as a witness in the case.
By hiring Ms. Mackey, who works for a Denver-based law firm, Mr. Weinstein will add a prominent female lawyer to his legal team. Ms. Mackey also has experience in sexual assault cases. She represented the basketball player Kobe Bryant when he was accused of raping a 19-year-old woman in 2003 in Colorado.
Mr. Bryant said at the time that he viewed their encounter as consensual, and the case was dropped after the woman said she would not testify.
Ms. Mackey, who is out of the country, could not be reached immediately for comment.
Mr. Weinstein, 66, faces five charges in Manhattan stemming from allegations that he raped one woman and performed oral sex on another against her will. The charges include two counts of predatory sexual assault, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. His trial is scheduled to begin in May.
Mr. Weinstein has denied the allegations and has said the relationships were consensual.
When Phyllis Schlafly crusaded against the Equal Rights Amendment in the 1970s as a threat to all-American motherhood, she handed out freshly baked bread and apple pie to state legislators. She warned of a dystopian post-E.R.A. future of women forced to enlist in the military, gay marriage, unisex toilets everywhere and homemakers driven into the workplace by husbands free to abandon them.
The E.R.A., which had been sailing to ratification, failed. Yet gay marriage is now the law. Women in the military see combat, although women are not required to register for the draft. Six women — so far — are running for president. A record-shattering number of women have claimed seats in Congress. And the percentage of prime-working-age women participating in the labor force has soared from 51 percent in 1972, when Congress passed the E.R.A., to more than 75 percent last year.
So what protections did American women earn without a constitutional amendment? Did the country get everywhere the people pushing for the amendment wanted it to go? These questions, once theoretical, are newly relevant with a push to revive the Equal Rights Amendment. It was left for dead in 1982, when three states failed to ratify it by a congressionally imposed deadline, leaving it short of the necessary three fourths of the states needed for ratification. But in the past two years, Nevada and Illinois have ratified the amendment. In Virginia, campaigners are pushing the state to ratify the amendment before the legislative session ends on Feb. 23, though ratification is a long shot.
Mrs. Schlafly may not have been able to prevent social changes that transformed the lives of American women, but she did drive a wedge between conservatives and liberals that remains today. “She was one of the early architects of class conflict as expressed through culture wars, as a way to stop the progress of the equality ideals of the professional management elite,” said Joan C. Williams, a feminist legal scholar skeptical about the usefulness of the Equal Rights Amendment. “One of the ironic messages of the E.R.A. is not to underestimate the power of ‘bathroom anxiety’ in pushing the country to the right.”
Some of the very arguments Mrs. Schlafly deployed decades ago resurfaced in the recent state legislature debates. In Nevada, Illinois and Virginia, conservative women denounced the amendment. Women already have equal rights, and an amendment would take away remaining privileges, they argued. It would make it illegal to separate the sexes in bathrooms, college dormitories or school sports, they claimed. Women would lose programs like food subsidies aimed at mothers and female-only scholarships.
What the E.R.A. would change and what it would not is both bitterly contested and hypothetical. During the 1970s and 80s, a determined corps of lawyers led by Ruth Bader Ginsburg persuaded the Supreme Court to extend the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to cover many forms of sex discrimination. After the E.R.A. stalled, legislators passed a bevy of new laws. Together, these had the effect of opening new doors for women.
But advocates point to gaps in existing laws and Supreme Court decisions that have limited enforcement, particularly in the areas of violence against women, sexual harassment and equal pay.
Justice Ginsburg, speaking at the Aspen Institute in 2017, said that while women had come “almost as far” under the 14th Amendment as they would have under the E.R.A., she still believed an amendment had practical and symbolic value. “I would like to be able to take out my pocket Constitution and say that the equal citizenship stature of men and women is a fundamental tenet of our society like free speech,” she said.
Catharine A. MacKinnon, whose legal theories laid the basis for sexual harassment being defined as a form of sex discrimination, has championed the revival of the amendment as a weapon against what she sees as the continuing subordination of women through sexual violence and economic inequality. “You go after sexuality and economics, you’ve gone to the heart of misogyny,” she said.
The Violence Against Women Act, passed in 1994, originally allowed women to sue their attackers in federal court. This was an important provision because of wide variations in the way states prosecuted rape and sexual violence cases, said Erwin Chemerinsky, the dean of the University of California, Berkeley, law school. The Supreme Court struck down that part of the law in 2000. Many laws against discrimination, including the Civil Rights Act, are based on Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce, but the court ruled that did not apply in cases of sexual violence. This would change with an equal rights amendment, he said.
Attempts to remedy the persistent pay gap between men and women have also fallen short because of rulings saying that gaps must be the result of intentional discrimination in order to violate the law and that many differences in pay are the result of factors “other than sex,” advocates say. If a woman doing the same work as a man is hired at a lower salary because her previous salary was lower, courts have ruled that is not pay discrimination, said Jessica Neuwirth, a co-founder of the E.R.A. Coalition. She believes an equal rights amendment would strengthen Congress’s ability to remedy unequal pay.
The E.R.A. was a touchstone of cultural anxiety when it first ran aground. If the move to renew it gained real traction, would it affect today’s most bitterly fought culture wars?
That, like so many things, depends on the conservative-liberal balance of the Supreme Court. Laws that restrict reproductive freedom obviously have a disparate impact on women, Mr. Chemerinsky said, but the court would have to decide whether such laws amount to discrimination on the basis of sex.
And our understanding of gender has changed in ways unimagined either by the suffragists who first drafted an equal rights amendment when women won the vote a century ago or the backers of the E.R.A. a half-century later. A real push for this amendment now might affect the treatment of trans people and who is legally seen as a man or a woman.
Ms. Williams, the legal scholar, believes the conservative tenor of the current court means justices would choose the narrowest interpretations of an equal rights amendment. Transformative change would be out of reach. Ms. Neuwirth argues just the opposite. 
“It’s almost more important in times like these to have very explicit constitutional language,” she said. “If the law says no discrimination on the basis of sex, then no matter what your legal ideology as a judge, the more concrete the language is, the better off people are going to be.”
Correction: Feb. 19, 2019
An earlier version of this article misstated the proportion of states needed to ratify a constitutional amendment. It is three-fourths of the states, not two-thirds.
Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.
[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]
Senator Sherrod Brown, a rumpled liberal populist, is out of the 2020 presidential race. And Joe Biden, the great hope of moderates, is (almost) in.
Newly elected purple-district Democrats in Congress are pledging to voters back home that they’ll “stay in the center.” Ed Rendell, a former Pennsylvania governor and national Democratic chairman, is warning the party that talking about things like single-payer health care and the Green New Deal “plays into the Trump campaign’s hands.”
And former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado opened his presidential campaign this week by questioning whether “Medicare for all” was “really the right thing.”
Welcome to the revenge of the moderates.
Since President Trump’s election, an activist liberal wing has taken hold of the Democratic Party. They’ve pushed bold economic, health care and environmental proposals. Some have embraced the term “socialist,” giving fresh fodder to Republican critics, and denounced the richest Americans and biggest corporations. And they’ve dominated the national conversation, from Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Congress to Senator Bernie Sanders on the campaign trail.
But now, as the 2020 primary field comes into sharper focus, we’re starting to see a resurgence of more moderate, market-oriented Democrats, as they try to re-exert their power in a party they fear is courting political defeat by veering too far left.
Mr. Biden, a politician defined by the era of centrist Democratic politics, has his campaign plan nearly in place and seems to be moving toward entering the race in the coming weeks. Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado and other congressional moderates, like Representatives Seth Moulton of Massachusetts and Tim Ryan of Ohio, are making noise about launching their own presidential bids.
Those men, along with several other white male moderates who may enter the race, hope to provide a counterweight to the proposals of the Sanders-Warren wing of the party.
Of course, in one really big way, the liberals have already won by shifting the debate distinctly leftward. The conversation in the Democratic Party is around their ideas: a massive plan to fight climate change, a complete overhaul of the health care system, new taxes on the ultrarich.
Many in the party have embraced these ideas, in part as a reaction to the intractably partisan environment in Washington. Bipartisan, moderate politics feel inadequate for the political moment, liberals argue. And if you can’t cut deals with market-oriented Republicans anyhow, the thinking goes, why not go big and bold?
The economist Brad DeLong, a neoliberal who served as deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy in the Clinton administration, has said that centrists like himself should “pass the baton to our colleagues on our left.”
Whether Democratic voters agree will be one of the defining questions of the primary.
[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]
____________________
Have you heard The Daily?
Our morning news podcast, The Daily, is a great way to hear the story behind the biggest stories at The New York Times. If you haven’t listened before — or if you’re a lapsed fan — you might want to try today’s episode: Coral Davenport, who covers energy and the environment for The Times, dives into the details and the politics of the Green New Deal.
Listen to the episode here.
____________________
We’ve written before about the brand of zero-tolerance racial and gender politics Democrats have embraced in the Trump era. What’s happening on Capitol Hill this week with Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota offers perhaps the most high-profile test yet of that policy — and how it interacts with the Democrats’ new power in Washington.
For those who haven’t been following the issue, here’s a quick catch-up. Last week, Ms. Omar suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country” — a comment that leading Jewish lawmakers said played into the anti-Semitic trope of “dual loyalty.” They pressured Speaker Nancy Pelosi to introduce a resolution condemning anti-Semitism.
That infuriated a group of younger liberal and minority members, who saw the resolution as unfairly targeting a lawmaker who is not only one of the first Muslim-American women in Congress but also a refugee.
The conflict boiled over in a closed-door meeting of House Democrats on Wednesday. What about condemning Islamophobia, demanded the liberal members? What about racism? Homophobia?
Senators Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris defended Ms. Omar from the campaign trail. Representative Ayanna Pressley, a freshman Democrat from Massachusetts, said: “We need to denounce all forms of hate. There is no hierarchy of hurt.”
The messy dispute has dominated Congress for the past week, overshadowing a signature Democratic bill, H.R. 1, designed to send a message about overhauling ethics, lobbying and voting laws. It has also been a boon for Republicans, who have already begun using Ms. Omar as both a symbol of Democratic hypocrisy and a way to give cover for the race-baiting, misogynistic remarks of President Trump.
In an effort to end the uproar, the House today approved a resolution on the oh-so-bold position of condemning all hate. One Democratic lawmaker told me this week that they just wanted to take the vote and move on as quickly as possible.
It’s not likely to be that easy: Issues of race, gender and immigration dominate our national conversation. Hard to imagine Democrats escaping them — or the passions they provoke.
Now we want to hear from you.
What do you think about Ms. Omar’s statements and the Democrats’ response? Send us your thoughts at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Include your name and state, and we may feature your comment in the newsletter next week.
____________________
• In this week’s Crossing the Border newsletter, an entrepreneur hopes to bring Americans and Mexicans together for good food, drinks and conversation.
• From the Magazine, The Top 25 Songs That Matter Right Now: A survey of the state of pop music, looking at the tracks and artists that best capture this moment. (And yes, there’s a Spotify playlist.)
• Caitlin Flanagan at The Atlantic with an insightful take on the roots and reasons behind Senator Amy Klobuchar’s rage — and whether it’s a feminist issue.
____________________
The Wall Street Journal details the second act of “Pharma Bro” Martin Shkreli, otherwise known as inmate 87850-053.
_____________________
Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.
Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.
Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
A bipartisan push to end the U.S. shutdown, France and Germany renew their vows, and the White House backs Venezuela’s opposition. Here’s the latest: 
Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, announced a bipartisan effort that could reopen the government for a few weeks and allow President Trump to deliver his State of the Union address. Chances of success: slim. 
Details: The Senate will vote on two competing bills on Thursday: a measure backed by Mr. Trump that includes funding for his wall, and a short-term spending bill favored by Democrats that would fund shuttered agencies through Feb. 8 without a wall. Neither measure is likely to get the needed votes, but there was hope that they could augur more cooperation.
Behind the scenes: In single-minded pursuit of a border wall, Mr. Trump has virtually pressed pause on the rest of his agenda.
Go deeper: The shutdown has forced some of the unpaid 800,000 federal workers to enter the gig economy to make ends meet. Here’s a roundup of all our other shutdown coverage.
Two and a half years ago, 52 percent of British voters expressed support for leaving the E.U. But public opinion has flipped, with a slight majority now in favor of remaining, and a second referendum is thought likelier than ever. But would it do any good? 
Analysis: Experts say that referendums tend to be highly imperfect measures of public opinion. Illustrating this, many of the voters who selected “leave” in 2016 had very different, and mutually exclusive, ideas about how that would work, leaving Parliament to try to sort it out.
Effects: A second referendum could deepen the chaos created by the first, our columnist argues. Whatever the result, half the public would probably feel cheated, undercutting an already shaky faith in British democracy. And then there’s the problem of getting a divided Parliament to agree to a ballot and decide which options to include.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France — representing countries that for ages waged ruinous wars against each other — met in a German city to renew the Élysée Treaty of 1963 that established comity between the two countries as the bedrock for a united Europe. 
But the ceremony was a reminder of the Continent’s current instability. “Seventy-four years after the end of World War II — a lifetime — things considered self-evident are again being called into question,” Ms. Merkel said.
Breakdown: The new accord pledges to deepen Franco-German economic integration and diplomatic coordination as well as military cooperation, with an eye toward making Europe less dependent on the U.S. Critics said that the agreement was relatively weak, and many smaller E.U. countries looked askance at the renewed friendship, seeing it as domineering. Moreover, Mr. Macron is largely reviled at home and Ms. Merkel is on her way out, threatening to open a void at the center of the European project. 
In Britain, the Chinese telecommunications company Huawei donated to top schools, held parties for political leaders and sponsored a charity founded by Prince Charles. In Germany, it sponsored the recent convention of the governing Christian Democratic Union.
Europe is now Huawei’s biggest market outside China, generating $20 billion in revenue together with the Middle East and Africa in 2017 — about a quarter of its total business. That’s the result of a 15-year campaign to cultivate closer ties with European governments.
Why it matters: Europe, like the U.S., is now beginning to turn on Huawei over concerns that its technology is being used for espionage. The U.S. plans to ask Canada to extradite a top Huawei executive within the next week. European officials are considering restrictions, companies are reassessing deals and organizations are returning donations.
But untangling may be difficult, as Huawei’s equipment plays a crucial role in Europe’s wireless infrastructure. Severing ties could delay hyperfast 5G networks.
Huawei’s response: The company has consistently denied wrongdoing. But as criticism mounts, it is working to ease concerns, including by allowing German officials to inspect its engineering and code.
Venezuela: Vice President Mike Pence offered the most explicit American backing yet for the opposition movement trying to unseat President Nicolás Maduro, declaring “unwavering support” for planned mass protests. 
Chris Brown: The R&B singer was released without charges after being questioned in Paris over accusations of rape, according to the authorities there. Mr. Brown has been involved in a string of violent episodes over the past few years.
Russia: In a surprise move, an escort from Belarus who once claimed to have information about Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election was released from detention in Moscow, her lawyer said.
Davos: With President Trump a no-show at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, Brazil’s new leader, Jair Bolsonaro, the so-called Trump of the Tropics, has taken up the populist mantle at the event.
U.S. Supreme Court: The justices voted 5 to 4 to allow President Trump’s policy barring transgender people from serving in the military to go into effect temporarily while court challenges proceeded.
The Oscars: Netflix received its first best picture Oscar nomination for “Roma,” which will be competing against “Black Panther” and “A Star Is Born,” among others. Here’s a complete list of nominees and a look at all the snubs and surprises.
Climate change: A record number of Americans now believe that global warming is a real threat, according to a new survey. 
Soccer: Emiliano Sala, a player who recently moved to the English Premier League, and a pilot are feared dead after the small airplane they were on disappeared over the English Channel. 
New Zealand: The unruly behavior of a British family touring the country — from refusing to pick up garbage left on a beach to throwing food on a cafe floor — captured locals’ unease about a boom in tourism.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Pick up some harissa, a North African chile paste, and make spicy chickpea soup.
How to handle the dreaded “Reply All moment.”
Athletes’ strategies can prepare you for life’s discomforts — and open your mind.
World leaders and chief executives are converging in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.
The global elite come to discuss the world’s problems — and maybe squeeze in some skiing.
Long before the forum existed, Davos was linked to Europe’s bourgeoisie as the setting of “The Magic Mountain,” the 1924 novel by Thomas Mann. It’s regarded as one of the greatest works in modern literature.
We asked Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review, what today’s readers should know about the book, which follows a wealthy young German through seven years in a tuberculosis sanitarium just ahead of World War I.
“Many people read it as a metaphor for the sickness of Europe on the brink of war,” she answered. “Well-heeled invalids gather indefinitely, for a cure that doesn’t necessarily come — perhaps deliberately. The longer they stay, the greater the owner’s profits.
“They spend their days gossiping, pursuing love affairs and having abstract arguments that never reach any decisive resolution.”
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The police officers who patrol New York City’s transit system are constantly scanning subway stations looking for a familiar set of faces: repeat sexual offenders who have arrest records.
The officers follow them through jam-packed platforms and onto crowded trains, waiting to see if they grope, grind, molest or indecently expose themselves again.
Because only then can the police intervene and make an arrest or eject them from the subway system.
The authorities have long been frustrated by not being able to keep known subway sexual harassers from returning to the scene of their crimes.
But now, lawmakers and police officials are pushing a dramatic measure: On Monday, a city councilman, Chaim M. Deutsch, introduced a bill that would bar repeat sexual offenders from the subway system for life.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio endorsed the idea of dealing more forcefully with sexual predators, though they stopped short of embracing a lifetime ban.
“If someone shoplifts in a store, and they are a recidivist, then that person could be banned from walking into the store,” said Mr. Deutsch, who represents parts of Brooklyn.
“This should not be any different,” added Mr. Deutsch, who said he was prompted to pursue the bill by an article in The New York Post about the challenges the police face in thwarting repeat subway sexual offenses.
City Council members often introduce bills that do not progress very far and Mr. Deutsch’s bill likely faces long odds.
Still, it has prompted a debate about a problem that many women who ride the subway must contend with on a near-daily basis.
“We have individuals who, literally, since the 1980s have been committing sexual offenses on the trains,” the Police Department’s chief of detectives, Dermot F. Shea, said on Wednesday during a news conference in Brooklyn. Chief Shea spoke outside the Brooklyn Bridge-City Hall subway station, where the police said they had earlier that day arrested a man for forcibly touching a 15-year-old girl.
Mr. Cuomo, who controls the subway, said he supported barring sexual offenders after a second conviction.
“This is one of these issues that I think common sense needs to prevail,” he told reporters in Albany on Tuesday, adding that groping and grinding was “a major problem.”
A precedent for such measures, the governor said, already existed because of laws that prohibit sexual offenders released from prison from living near schools.
“You have people who target people in the subways,” he said, adding that the high recidivism rate for such crimes shows that existing laws were ineffective. “Why keep doing the same thing over and over and over again?”
Mr. de Blasio also did not say specifically whether he supported Mr. Deutsch’s bill, but said he would support legislation that would “help us do more to go at these predators and get them off the subway.”
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the subway, issued a statement saying that it supported efforts to keep repeat sexual offenders out of the subway.
The number of sex crimes, including felonies and misdemeanors, on the subway are on the rise — 165 were reported through March 17, a 10 percent increase compared with the same period last year, according to the New York Police Department.
Even though victims of sexual offenses have been encouraged to come forward for years, Chief Shea said he still believed the number of crimes did not reflect the extent of the problem.
In recent years, the police and the transit agency have focused on making victims more willing to report criminal encounters.
As part of that campaign, the Police Department has trained more female officers to work on sex-crime cases in the subway. They have also encouraged riders to submit cellphone camera photos and videos that could help them identify suspects and have posted these photos on social media.
Still, because most sexual offenses committed on the subway are misdemeanors, prosecutors are limited in punishing convicted offenders and keeping them out of the subway, said Chief Edward Delatorre, who oversees the Police Department’s transit bureau.
In Albany, State Senator Diane J. Savino, a Democrat who represents Staten Island and Brooklyn, has been working for several years to increase the penalties for people who repeatedly commit sexual offenses on the subway.
“Right now, these offenders are only committing misdemeanors and can only be sentenced to up to a year in jail, with most serving little to no time at all,” Ms. Savino said.
While Ms. Savino said she supported the ban proposed by Mr. Deutsch, she believed it would be hard to enforce.
“They can’t be expected to have people at every turnstile checking who gets on and off the subway,” she said. “The real solution is to properly punish these crimes.”
A bill she has sponsored would make unwanted sexual contact on public transportation — what Ms. Savino called “subway grinding” — a felony. The bill was passed by the Senate three times between 2013 and 2018, all while the chamber was controlled by Republicans, but never made it past the Democratic-controlled Assembly’s Committee on Codes, which has jurisdiction over criminal justice policy.
"Their attitude is that these penalties are severe enough,” she said of the committee. “But they’re not. If they were, you would not have repeat incidents by the same predators.”
PARIS — The R&B singer Chris Brown was released without charges on Tuesday after he was questioned by the Paris police over a rape accusation, according to the authorities and his lawyer.
Shortly afterward, Mr. Brown said in a message on his Instagram account that the accusations were “false” and that his accuser was “lying.”
Mr. Brown, 29, had been taken into custody on Monday for questioning about an accusation of aggravated rape and possible drug infractions. Reports in the French news media said that an investigation had been opened after a woman filed a complaint with the Paris police, accusing him of raping her at his hotel last week after they met at a nightclub in the capital.
The Paris prosecutor’s office said on Tuesday evening that Mr. Brown had been released without charges but that the investigation was continuing. Mr. Brown’s lawyer in Paris, Raphael Chiche, confirmed that his client had been released but did not comment further on the allegations against him.
On his official Instagram page, Mr. Brown posted a picture on Tuesday evening that said “This b!tch lyin’,” an image he had used before in reference to a previous accusation in the United States. In the caption for the picture, Mr. Brown wrote in all caps that he wanted to “make it perfectly clear” that “this is false.”
“For my daughter and my family this is so disrespectful and is against my character and morals,” he wrote.
According to the celebrity-news magazine Closer, which first reported Mr. Brown’s detention, his questioning came after a woman in her 20s filed a complaint against him. The woman, who was not identified, accused Mr. Brown of raping her in a Paris hotel room last week, the magazine said.
The woman told the police that she met the singer on Jan. 15 at a nightclub near the Champs-Élysées and that later that evening, he invited her and several other women to the upscale Mandarin Oriental hotel, where he was staying, Closer reported.
According to the magazine, the woman told the police that she then found herself alone in one of the hotel’s rooms, where she said Mr. Brown raped her. She also accused a friend of the singer and his bodyguard of raping her.
The Paris prosecutor’s office said on Tuesday evening that two other people who had been questioned by police in connection with the case had also been released without charges, but it did not identify them or explain their connection to Mr. Brown, who has been attending shows in the city for Paris Men’s Fashion Week.
Mr. Brown’s record company, RCA, which said this month that it had signed a new deal with Mr. Brown, did not respond to a request for comment. Last week RCA dropped another of its R&B stars, R. Kelly, after protests that followed the airing of the television documentary “Surviving R. Kelly.” In the documentary, women said that Mr. Kelly had lured them into sexual relationships when they were underage, and had abused them mentally and physically.
Mr. Brown has been involved in a string of violent episodes over the past few years. In July, he was arrested in connection with a nightclub dispute from April 2017, when he was accused of punching a photographer in Tampa, Fla. In May, a woman sued him, saying he held her against her will at his Los Angeles house last year while a friend of his raped her. He was arrested in 2016 on a charge of assault with a deadly weapon after a standoff at his home.
In 2009, he pleaded guilty to one count of felony assault on his girlfriend at the time, the singer Rihanna.
Despite his legal troubles, Mr. Brown has remained popular with an ardent fan base. He has won several industry prizes, including the 2012 Grammy for best R&B album for “F.A.M.E.,” and he performed at that year’s Grammy ceremony. His most recent album, “Heartbreak on a Full Moon,” opened at No. 3 on the Billboard album chart in late 2017.
In 2010, according to the BBC, Mr. Brown was forced to postpone a British tour after he was denied a visa to enter the country because of the assault conviction involving Rihanna. In 2015, he was forced to cancel the Australian and New Zealand leg of his “One Hell of a Nite” tour for the same reason.
Earlier that year, he was barred from leaving the Philippines for three days because of a fraud complaint stemming from a 2014 New Year’s Eve concert in that country.
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — As the release of a new documentary detailing abuse accusations against the singer Michael Jackson has prompted debate about his legacy, the public response to its contents is also leading radio stations across the globe to stop playing his music.
A radio network in Quebec pulled Jackson’s music from its nearly two dozen stations, according to The Canadian Press. In Britain, Variety reported that the BBC was forced to deny imposing such a ban after it was reported that the singer’s music had been “quietly dropped” from one of its stations.
And the backlash has led to an almost complete removal of the singer’s music from the airwaves in New Zealand, after the two largest radio networks — which own most of the country’s commercial stations — said Wednesday that they would no longer play Jackson’s songs.
In the New Zealand and Canadian cases, radio networks cited a change in public opinion about Jackson that was tied to the documentary “Leaving Neverland,” a two-part mini-series focusing on the accusations of two men who say Jackson abused them as children, as the reason for the ban. The program is scheduled for broadcast in New Zealand on Sunday and Monday.
Leon Wratt, the content director of MediaWorks, one of the New Zealand radio companies, said audiences had indicated that they no longer wanted to hear Jackson’s music.
“We aren’t deciding whether Michael Jackson is guilty of pedophilia or not,” he said in an interview on one of MediaWorks’ stations, Magic. “We’re just merely trying to make sure that our radio stations are going to play the music that people want to hear.”
Mr. Wratt added that the accusations against Jackson had been public for years — the singer was cleared of child molesting charges after a trial in 2005. But viewers have reacted with shock to the new documentary. And its subjects, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, who detail disturbing accusations from their childhoods against Jackson, have received both plaudits and abuse for their part in it.
Dean Buchanan, a spokesman for NZME, the other New Zealand radio network to pull Jackson’s music, said by email that the singer’s work was not being played “right now” on its stations.
The country’s national public broadcaster, Radio New Zealand — which is primarily a talk station — also said that Jackson’s music currently did not feature in its air play, although a spokesman, John Barr, said that was not the result of a particular editorial decision.
A Canadian media company, Cogeco, that told The Canadian Press it had banned Jackson’s music on its 23 stations in Quebec — including three major Montreal stations — cited the public response to “Leaving Neverland” as the reason.
Neither NZME nor MediaWorks responded to questions about how long the ban would last, what date it began, or whether the networks planned to pull the songs of other musicians accused of wrongdoing, such as R. Kelly, who has been accused of, and denies, decades of serial misconduct.
Mr. Wratt, the MediaWorks spokesman, said Jackson’s music would still be available on streaming services and in record stores for anyone who wanted to hear it.
“The difference with radio, of course, is that if we play it you don’t have a choice,” he said.
This is not the first time radio stations and streaming services have wrestled with whether to remove the music of artists accused of misconduct: Spotify last May instituted a policy of ceasing to promote or recommend R. Kelly’s music because of the accusations against him, though it rescinded the policy a month later after uproar from some in the music industry.
Jackson’s estate in February canceled the Chicago run of a new jukebox musical about the singer three weeks after the Sundance premiere of “Leaving Neverland,” and two weeks before its HBO broadcast. The producers of the musical, “Don’t Stop ’Til You Get Enough,” cited scheduling difficulties caused by a labor dispute as the reason.
The estate is seeking $100 million in damages from HBO over the “Leaving Neverland” documentary, which Howard Weitzman, the estate’s lawyer, branded “a disgrace.”
The final season of “Game of Thrones” arrives April 14. Before then, we’re getting prepared by rewatching the first seven seasons. Sign up to get these straight to your inbox.
This article contains spoilers for Seasons 1-7 of “Game of Thrones.”
I see a darkness in your binge, and in that darkness, eyes staring back at me. Brown eyes, blue eyes, green eyes. Eyes you’ll binge forever.
Welcome back to our guide through an epic “Game of Thrones” rewatch. If you’re just joining us, you can catch up on Season 1 or Season 2 first, or pray to the Lord of Light as we resurrect Season 3.
Novices beware: This newsletter is dark and full of spoilers. And now our watch continues.
If you want to catch up fast, concentrate on the installments that are central to the famously complicated plot and the ones that provide all the facts and feels. These are four must-watch episodes of Season 3.
Episode 1, “Valar Dohaeris,” for the reset of where most of the characters are on the map and a demonstration of some new, necessary relationships (Tywin and his pen pals, Margaery and the people). Plus: our first giant. (Don’t stare too long; they’re shy.)
Episode 5, “Kissed by Fire,” a rather warm entry with heartwarming moments (Shireen) and romance (Jon and Ygritte), as several folks discover bath time and take the plunge. Also: smirk along with (or at?) Cersei as we sort through the tangled web of Lannister/Tyrell/Stark marriage-alliance plots.
Episode 8, “Second Sons,” to attend a royal wedding where no one dies, although Cersei does drop a death threat on a Tyrell in the Sept of Baelor. Foreshadowing! Bonus: Sam Tarly becomes Sam the Slayer.
Episode 9, “The Rains of Castamere,” because it’s a nice day for a Red Wedding. Scream, cry and say goodbye to some sadly unsuspecting Starks. Also try not to choke up when Bran wargs Hodor for the first time, or Rickon and Osha leave. The heartbreak!
The War of the Five Kings has lost one king but remains in full swing, with three of the seven kingdoms in open rebellion. Plots are in place to remove another king from the board by the end of the season, but there are so many plots, counterplots, and untrustworthy types lurking about, it’s hard to keep track. Focusing on these might help:
Calling Child Protective Services
An awful lot of children in Westeros and Essos get mistreated — molested, murdered, sold or sacrificed (as we learn the daughter-raping Craster has done with his 99 sons, and would have done with his 100th, Gilly’s baby). Some 8,000 newborns were killed in Astapor because slave masters wanted to prove their eunuch soldiers had no sense of empathy. Other children are orphaned when their parents are killed in one or another war.
Few kids can fend for themselves — the Stark children survive primarily because they have guardians who step in and take care of them. (The Hound isn’t a bad babysitter!) We don’t know yet what kind of parental substitutes the White Walkers are, but you’d figure they have to be better than Craster. (They at least show an interest.) No wonder Dany develops a savior complex — there are so many children in this brutal world who desperately need saving.
Spy vs. Spy
Spies are everywhere. Jon Snow goes undercover with the Free Folk as a defector (and doesn’t fully fool them). Varys convinces Ros to spy on Littlefinger (or perhaps she lured him in, looking to spill some valuable info about her boss’s travel plans). Varys then tries to thwart Littlefinger by plotting with the Tyrells, but Littlefinger’s prostitute Olyvar easily seduces Loras Tyrell and reports back. Key bit of intel: Loras is set to marry … someone. Littlefinger concludes that the someone is Sansa and alerts the Lannisters, leading to Tywin’s strategic matchmaking of Cersei with Loras and Tyrion with Sansa, which none of them are happy about. (Littlefinger gives Ros to Joffrey, which doesn’t end well.)
Even though Jorah Mormont is no longer a spy, he’s clearly worried that new Team Dany member Barristan Selmy knows he was, and could use that fact against him. And the ultimate spymaster in all of Westeros, of course, is the Three-Eyed Raven, who recruits Jojen Reed and Bran Stark for his mysterious purposes. At least Jon, Ros, Olyvar and Jorah know the risks of their espionage: Bran has no idea what’s in store for him. (“The raven is you” does not count.)
Red Wedding RSVPs 
When did the plans for the Red Wedding coalesce? The Frey alliance with the Starks was in tatters by the end of Season 2, but they didn’t plan it alone.
When did Tywin Lannister get in on the action? Clues come early in Season 3, when he embarks on a correspondence spree. (Notice that when both Tyrion and Cersei come to visit him, he is preoccupied with writing letters). Tywin’s first missives would most likely be to the Freys, who want revenge on the Starks and an end to the war in the Riverlands.
What about Roose Bolton? The first dodgy sign comes when he doesn’t tell the Starks that Ramsay has captured Theon — with the Stark position weakening, Roose probably decided to start keeping his options open. When his hunters return with Jaime Lannister (and Brienne), those options become clearer: He can alert Robb and help resolve issues with Lord Karstark, or he can alert Tywin, and gain a favor from the crown. So for the second time, Roose neglects to inform the Starks about a prisoner they seek.
While Jaime and Brienne are in Bolton’s custody, Tywin starts talking about Sansa being “the key to the North.” It would seem Tywin is more secure with his plans to remove Robb — perhaps because he now knows the whereabouts of his son. Only after this do the Freys bring new terms to the Starks, at which point Roose decides to free Jaime. Coincidence?
Save the Date
Joffrey’s nuptials won’t happen until Season 4, but the conspirators begin their conspiring here in Season 3. It takes a lot to plan a murder at a royal wedding — you have to order the flowers, the cake, the poison …
Early on, Olenna Tyrell questions Sansa about what Joffrey’s really like, possibly to clarify her thoughts about a course of action. And with all the Sansa-swapping schemes being bandied about, it must have also occurred to the Queen of Thorns that a swap would be beneficial for Margaery’s sake as well — her granddaughter would still be able to marry Joff’s gentler brother Tommen, who would ascend to the throne, if say, Joffrey were removed from power before consummating any marriage. That is, if the Tyrell-Lannister alliance remains intact, and if the Lannisters still need the Tyrells more than the Tyrells need the Lannisters. And so Olenna offers a few concessions to Tyrion and Tywin — offering to pay for half of the royal wedding (after Tyrion objects to its cost) and agreeing to a Loras-Cersei marriage alliance, for now at least.
We don’t see Olenna interact with Littlefinger at all this season — they’re careful, these two. But Varys does tell her that Littlefinger is “the most dangerous man in Westeros.” Who better to help plan a regicide?
White Walker Art Installations
“Always the artists,” Mance Rayder grumbles when he finds disassembled horse corpses at the First of the First Men. (Sam also finds a man with his head in his lap.) Either the White Walkers really have a lot of time on their hands, or they’re trying to send a message. But what is it? We’ll later see some of these same spirals and geometric patterns in cave paintings and stone circles made by the Children of the Forest, which underlines the connection between the two species. Are the White Walkers’ art pieces a memory or mockery of their creators? A warning to humans? A ritual form of worship? Yelp reviews? In order to defeat them, we’ll need to understand them.
Crucifixion and torture, Episodes 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10 
If you don’t share Ramsay’s taste for sadism, skip his slicing, dicing and psychosexual mutilation of Theon, mostly while the poor devil is strapped to a saltire cross. Basically, any time you see Ramsay, fast forward and explain that he breaks Theon and turns him into a groveling slave called Reek. Done? Done.
Also potentially hard to take: the sight of the men crucified along Astapor’s Walk of Punishment. The shot comes about 30 minutes into Episode 3 and lasts a little over two minutes, with most of the miserable victims remaining in the background.
Twin rebellions beyond the Wall and in Essos, Episode 4
The Night’s Watch mutiny is sudden and brutal. (The first blow takes place around 41 minutes into the episode, and lasts two minutes.) Dany’s sack of Astapor, while empowering, is also quite violent — she incinerates a man and orders mass murder. (The incineration starts at around 51 minutes into the episode, and lasts about a minute).
Sexy times, Episodes 5, 7 and 8
Jon and Ygritte have a date night (the cave scene arrives about 11 minutes into Episode 5 and lasts about three minutes). Loras and Olyvar share some pillow talk (around 52 minutes into Episode 5, lasts about a minute). Robb and Talisa leave war behind for one night (about 7 minutes into Episode 7, lasts about four minutes). Melisandre gets Gendry’s blood up (she starts to seduce him about 30 minutes into Episode 8, and the leeches are clear of all private parts three and a half minutes later).
Red Wedding, Episodes 9, 10 
Everything seems fine until the band plays the Lannister theme song. If you’d rather skip the slaughter, it starts at about 46 minutes into Episode 9 and goes until the end, picking up again for a couple minutes more at the beginning of Episode 10.
• A season three preview.
• How “Game of Thrones” became the most important show.
• Set-jetting to show locations.
• The first major premiere event.
• The new spoiler culture.
We want to hear from you! What did you think of Season 3 at the time? What was your favorite scene? What was your own Red Wedding reaction? Email us at gameofthrones@nytimes.com.
LONDON — Julian Assange, the founder of anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, was arrested at the Embassy of Ecuador in London Thursday — seven years after he first took refuge there.
A look at key events in the Assange saga:
— August 2010: Swedish prosecutor issues arrest warrant for Assange based on one woman's allegation of rape and another's allegation of molestation. The warrant was withdrawn shortly, with prosecutors citing insufficient evidence for the rape allegation. Assange denies the allegations.
— September 2010: Sweden's director of prosecutions reopens rape investigation. Assange leaves Sweden for Britain Sept.27.
— November 2010: Swedish police issue international arrest warrant for Assange.
— December 2010: Assange surrenders to police in London and is detained pending extradition hearing. High Court grants Assange bail on Dec. 16.
— Feb. 24, 2011: District court in Britain rules Assange should be extradited to Sweden.
— Dec. 5, 2011: Assange granted an appeal to the Supreme Court.
— May 30, 2012: Supreme Court rejects Assange's appeal.
— June 2012: Assange asks Supreme Court to reopen case; court refuses. Assange enters Ecuadorian embassy in central London, seeking asylum on June 19. Police set up round-the-clock guard to arrest him if he steps outside.
— Aug. 16, 2012: Assange is granted political asylum by Ecuador.
— July 2014: Assange loses bid to have an arrest warrant issued in Sweden against him canceled. A judge in Stockholm upholds the warrant alleging sexual offences against two women.
— March 2015: Swedish prosecutors ask to question Assange at the Ecuadorian embassy.
— Aug. 13, 2015: Swedish prosecutors drop investigations into some allegations against Assange because of the statute of limitations; investigation into a rape allegation remains active.
— Oct. 12, 2015: Metropolitan Police end their 24-hour guard outside the Ecuadorean embassy but say they'll arrest Assange if he leaves — ending a three-year police operation estimated to have cost more than 12 million pounds ($17 million).
— Feb. 5, 2016: Assange claims "total vindication" as the U.N. Working Group on Arbitrary Detention finds that he has been unlawfully detained and recommends he be immediately freed and given compensation. British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond calls the finding "frankly ridiculous."
— April 6, 2017: Ecuador's president-elect, Lenin Moreno, warns Assange that as a condition of asylum granted in 2012, he is not allowed to meddle in politics following comments on Twitter.
— May 19, 2017: Swedish prosecutors drop their investigation into rape allegation against Assange, and the European arrest warrant is withdrawn because there is no prospect of bringing Assange to Sweden. British police say he is still wanted for jumping bail in 2012.
— September 2018: Ecuador's president says his country and Britain are working on a legal solution to allow Assange to leave the embassy in "the medium term."
— October 2018: Assange seeks court injunction pressing Ecuador to provide him basic rights he said the country agreed to when it first granted him asylum.
— November 2018: A U.S. court filing that appears to inadvertently reveal the existence of a sealed criminal case against Assange is discovered by a researcher. No details are confirmed.
— April 2, 2019: Ecuadorian President Lenin Moreno blames WikiLeaks for recent allegations of corruption.
— April 5, 2019: A senior Ecuadorian official says no decision has been made to expel Assange from the London embassy despite rumors he could be kicked out soon.
— April 11, 2019: London police arrest Assange at the Ecuadorian embassy for breaching bail conditions in 2012, as well as on behalf of U.S. authorities, shortly after Ecuador's government withdrew his asylum status.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Troubles mount for Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, Cardinal George Pell and Boeing. Here’s the latest:
British lawmakers soundly voted against Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan, further deepening confusion just 17 days before the country is expected to leave the E.U. Follow our live updates here.
The defeat, Mrs. May’s second in just a few months, leaves Parliament sharply divided on how — or even if — to proceed with Brexit. 
It will also likely intensify calls for Mrs. May’s resignation even though there are no clear front-runners within her Conservative party who could take her place.
What next? Lawmakers will now pivot to another crucial vote tomorrow on whether to leave the E.U. without a deal, which is hugely unpopular. 
If parliament votes against a no-deal Brexit, they will then vote on Thursday on whether to postpone Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. 
George Pell, an Australian cardinal who was the Vatican’s chief financial officer and an adviser to Pope Francis, will be sentenced in Melbourne today for molesting two boys after Sunday Mass in 1996.
By law, he faces up to 50 years in prison, but he could receive a lower sentence amid pleas from his supporters, including a former prime minister, John Howard, for reduced time.
Reminder: The cardinal was convicted of abuse in December, making him the highest-ranking Catholic clergyman to be found guilty of sexually abusing minors. But his guilty verdict was unsealed only two weeks ago, after a court lifted a gag order that kept the decision out of the public eye for months.
Impact: The charges against and conviction of the cardinal have hardened distrust and anger among Catholics in Australia, pushing the country’s once robust church into a drastic decline. The number of Catholics attending Mass has fallen to 12 percent in 2011 from 74 percent in the 1950s and is expected to fall further.
Nearly half of the 737 Max 8 aircraft in the world have been pulled from use except in one notable country: the United States.
Two days after 157 people were killed on a Boeing 737 Max 8 flight from Ethiopia to Kenya, European Union officials grounded all of the planes traveling in and out of its member countries, following similar moves by aviation regulators in China, Indonesia, Singapore and Australia.
The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said it would examine the data from the Ethiopia crash but added that it was too early to determine what caused the fatal accident. And it cautioned against making comparisons to the crash of a 737 Max 8 in Indonesia in October.
We’ll continue to bring you live updates here.
Another angle: The crash dented Ethiopian Airlines’ campaign to become Africa’s leading carrier.
Go deeper: After October crash, The Times took a closer look at the relationship between Boeing and the F.A.A. 
A senior official from the western Xinjiang region, in an effort to push back on international criticism, told a room full of foreign and Chinese journalists that the internment camps for Muslim minorities were “like boarding schools where the students eat and live for free.”
He indicated that the camps would eventually be phased out and that the number of inmates would shrink, but he didn’t provide a timeline.
Reminder: China’s sweeping detention of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities has elicited widespread condemnation around the world, including from the U.S., Turkey and the United Nations.
Foreign experts, citing satellite imagery and government documents, have estimated that as many as a million people are held in these camps without trial as part of an effort to turn them into loyal supporters of the Communist Party.
1MDB: The U.S. Federal Reserve banned two former Goldman Sachs executives from the banking industry because of their roles in the global, multibillion-dollar fraud involving a Malaysian government investment fund. 
K-pop: Lee Seung-hyun, who performs under the name Seungri for the immensely popular boy band Big Bang, has been accused of arranging for investors to receive sexual favors at a nightclub. He has denied the allegations but said he would retire to protect the reputation of the band.
Google: Alphabet’s board of directors agreed to pay Amit Singhal, a former top executive at the search giant, as much as $45 million when he resigned in 2016 after being accused of groping an employee. His payment was revealed in a shareholder lawsuit filed this week that accuses Alphabet of shirking its responsibilities and paying executives instead of firing them for just cause.
Nissan-Renault: The Japanese and French carmakers vowed to preserve their alliance and move past the removal of their former chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, whose arrest cast doubt on the future of the auto industry’s most successful partnership. Questions remain about how the two sides will overcome long-running tensions.
Britain: The police said they were investigating a claim that the Irish Republican Army was behind the explosive packages sent around London and Scotland last week.
Costa Rica: The tiny Central American nation wants to wean itself from fossil fuels by 2050 under a broad decarbonization plan that could serve as a model for other countries. Its chief evangelist is an urban planner, Claudia Dobles, who also happens to be the nation’s first lady.
Venezuela: The U.S. is withdrawing all remaining diplomatic personnel from its embassy in the capital city of Caracas because of the “deteriorating situation” there, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. Some see that as a possible precursor to some form of military intervention.
How to disappear: An employee at a Bitcoin security company set out to make himself disappear from the all-seeing eyes of the American corporate world and the government, without having to give up internet access. This is how he achieved it, in 15 (not so easy) steps.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: With a little forethought, marinated short ribs can be part of a balanced weeknight rice bowl.
Building a successful team is not just about finding the right people but also about fostering a strong sense of teamwork.
Women and performers share tips on how to stay safe on the dance floor.
The otherwise invisible special counsel investigation takes regular public shape inside the E. Barrett Prettyman Courthouse in Washington, where Paul Manafort will be sentenced today.
It is the same building where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has used a grand jury to return indictments.
Your Back Story writer has visited the building often, over months of helping cover hearings involving Mueller targets, including Roger Stone and Michael Flynn.
A little over half a mile from F.B.I. headquarters, the courthouse has a bland limestone exterior, tall windows, long hallways and artificial lighting, which combine to create a sterile aura of law and order. Outside, protesters and camera crews have jostled as Trump associates enter and exit through revolving doors familiar to cable news junkies.
Today, guests will crowd into wooden pews as Mr. Manafort waits in a tiled holding room just off Judge Amy Berman Jackson’s chambers. He will enter the courtroom, perhaps for the last time, in a suit and tie, a special request granted by Judge Jackson.
Noah Weiland, from our Washington bureau, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Just weeks after suing Amazon for canceling a four-movie deal, Woody Allen is working on a new film in Spain.
The project is being backed by Mediapro, a Barcelona-based conglomerate that has financed several films by Allen, including the romantic dramas “Vicky Cristina Barcelona” and “Midnight in Paris.” A spokeswoman for the company confirmed Allen was already working on the film, but said she could not confirm any other details such as local media reports that he had already scouted locations.
Allen has been under scrutiny over longstanding abuse allegations that he molested his adopted daughter Dylan Farrow in 1992.
In August 2017, Amazon reached a $68 million deal with Allen’s production company to fund and distribute at least four movies, including “A Rainy Day in New York.” Later that year, Farrow wrote an op-ed piece in The Los Angeles Times, arguing that the #MeToo movement has “spared” the once-revered director.
According to a lawsuit, Amazon executives met with members of Allen’s team to discuss postponing the release of “A Rainy Day in New York,” which Allen had completed, to 2019. The studio said it had already been facing “negative publicity and reputational harm” for its past association with Harvey Weinstein.
Last June, Amazon Studios sent an email to Allen’s representatives saying that the deal was terminated, citing the renewed allegations, the director’s “own comments, and the increasing refusal of top talent to work with or be associated with him in any way, all of which have frustrated the purpose of the agreement.”
“A Rainy Day in New York” has yet to be released; the last of Allen’s films to hit theaters in the United States was the 2017 drama “Wonder Wheel,” which was distributed by Amazon Studios.
Amazon has partnered with Mediapro in the past, but it is not involved with Allen’s new project. And Jennifer Salke, the head of Amazon Studios, said in a New York Times report this week that the company does not have plans to release any movies by the director.
When asked why it was working with Allen given that Amazon had stopped doing so, Mediapro said in a statement, “We have a 10-year relationship with Mr. Allen and, like all projects we produce, we judge the creator by its work.”
“All of our projects have a unique personality, and we support all types of artistic voices and ideas and remain committed to producing well-defined and creative projects for audiences worldwide,” the statement continued.
Allen’s work has long found more success abroad, particularly in Europe. In an interview with The Times in 1998, Allen said his movies rarely break even in the United States. He added: “I’ve always depended on Europe to supplement my grosses.”
“Wonder Wheel” brought in only $1.4 million in North America. It collected nearly $14.5 million overseas, with its highest revenues in France, Italy and Spain, according to Box Office Mojo, which tracks ticket sales.
Allen’s reputation may have cost him the Amazon deal and alienated a number of A-list actors, but some have come to his defense. In October, Javier Bardem, who starred in “Vicky Cristina Barcelona,” called the upheaval surrounding the abuse allegations a “public lynching” and said he would work with Allen again. In an interview in The Times published in November, Jude Law, who worked with Allen on “A Rainy Day in New York,” said the shelving of the film by Amazon was a “terrible shame.”
“I’d love to see it,” Law said. “People worked really hard and put a lot in, obviously himself included.”
Even as the filmmaker was wrapping up production on “A Rainy Day in New York” last year, he had already secured financing for a script he was working on outside the Amazon agreement, Letty Aronson, Allen’s sister and longtime producer, told The Times.
“I have no doubt,” she said, “that he’ll be able to find new talent.”
BRUSSELS — In a decision decried as "deeply flawed" and a "devastating blow for victims," International Criminal Court judges on Friday rejected a request by the court's prosecutor to open an investigation into war crimes and crimes against humanity in Afghanistan and alleged crimes by U.S. forces linked to the conflict.
In a lengthy written ruling, judges said an investigation "would not serve the interests of justice" because an investigation and prosecution were unlikely to be successful, as those targeted, including the United States, Afghan authorities and the Taliban, are not expected to cooperate, the court said in a statement.
Human Rights Watch slammed the ruling, calling it "a devastating blow for victims who have suffered grave crimes without redress."
In a statement released by the White House, the Trump administration hailed the decision not to investigate U.S. personnel as "a major international victory, not only for these patriots, but for the rule of law."
The ICC decision does acknowledge that the November 2017 request from Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda to open a probe "establishes a reasonable basis to consider that crimes within the ICC jurisdiction have been committed in Afghanistan and that potential cases would be admissible before the Court."
In a written reaction, the court's prosecution office said it "will further analyze the decision and its implications, and consider all available legal remedies."
The decision comes a month after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Washington would revoke or deny visas to ICC staff seeking to investigate alleged war crimes and other abuses committed by U.S. forces in Afghanistan or elsewhere.
Bensouda's U.S. visa already has been revoked.
In a written statement, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo pointed out that the rejection followed those measures: "I am glad the Court reconsidered its actions."
Rights groups were not.
Patrick Baudouin, president of the International Federation for Human Rights, called the rejection a "dark day for justice" and a "shocking decision, which is based on a deeply flawed reasoning."
Bensouda's request to open an investigation said there is information that members of the U.S. military and intelligence agencies "committed acts of torture, cruel treatment, outrages upon personal dignity, rape and sexual violence against conflict-related detainees in Afghanistan and other locations, principally in the 2003-2004 period."
She also said that the Taliban and other insurgent groups have killed more than 17,000 civilians since 2009, including some 7,000 targeted killings.
She alleged that Afghan security forces have tortured prisoners at government detention centers.
Sima Samar, the chair of Afghanistan's Independent Human Rights Commission who lobbied strongly for the investigation, said the decision was a disappointment for victims.
In a phone interview from Kabul, she told The Associated Press that it risks emboldening the perpetrators of crimes in Afghanistan, who were "at least a little fearful" of facing justice.
"With this decision, people will lose hope of getting justice and they might take revenge, fueling conflict in the country," she said.
The court said in a statement that the shifting Afghan political scene since then, the lack of cooperation that prosecutors have received so far and the likelihood that cooperation would diminish further if a full-blown investigation is opened combine to hamper the chances of a successful investigation and prosecutions.
Judges said the court needs to "use its resources prioritizing activities that would have better chances to succeed," according to an ICC press release.
Human Rights Watch said the ruling establishes a dangerous precedent.
"The judges' logic effectively allows states to opt out on their obligation to cooperate with the court's investigation," said Param-Preet Singh, the group's associate international justice director. "This sends a dangerous message to perpetrators that they can put themselves beyond the reach of the law just by being uncooperative."
____
Kathy Gannon in Islamabad and Matthew Lee in Washington, D.C. contributed to this report.
While he was the United States attorney for the Southern District of Florida in 2007, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta oversaw a plea deal for Jeffrey Epstein, the New York financier accused of sexually abusing more than 80 underage girls. Rich and well-connected — his friends and acquaintances included Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton, Kevin Spacey, Woody Allen and Donald Trump — Mr. Epstein faced a 53-page federal indictment that could have put him in prison for life, according to The Miami Herald, which ran a blockbuster expose in November. The F.B.I. was also investigating him on suspicion of masterminding an international sex-trafficking operation.
But Mr. Acosta’s office, working closely with Mr. Epstein’s high-priced defense team — stocked with legal stars such as Alan Dershowitz, Kenneth Starr, Jay Lefkowitz and Roy Black — put together a non-prosecution agreement that let Mr. Epstein avoid federal charges, plead guilty to two state counts of felony prostitution, and serve less than 13 months in a private wing of the Palm Beach County jail, with most days spent on work-release in his office in West Palm Beach. Mr. Epstein was required to register as a sex offender and pay restitution to some of the young women, but the agreement shut down the F.B.I. investigation and gave immunity to all “potential co-conspirators” — including any of Mr. Epstein’s rich and powerful buddies who may have taken a turn with his victims. 
It was a deal so sweet it would rot your teeth. It also turned out to be illegal.
Last Thursday, after a decade-long court battle begun by two of Mr. Epstein’s accusers, a federal judge ruled that Mr. Acosta and his team violated the federal Crime Victims’ Rights Act by hiding the details of Mr. Epstein’s deal from his victims — many of whom didn’t know a deal had been in the works until they heard about it on the news. This denied the young women an opportunity to appear at Mr. Epstein’s sentencing hearing. The victims were also led to believe that the F.B.I. investigation would continue. It was a betrayal of countless young women — the full tally of Mr. Epstein’s victims remains unknown — who’d already had their bodies violated and their innocence destroyed.
If even a fraction of the accusations against him are true, Mr. Epstein was no ordinary predator. (Those with a weak stomach may want to skip ahead.) For years, he allegedly turned his Palm Beach mansion into a sex den, luring in teenagers whom he paid and coerced into an array of sexual behavior. Mr. Epstein reportedly groomed some of the teenagers to recruit even younger, fresher victims. He was said to like his girls white and prepubescent looking. One victim has recalled that Mr. Epstein praised her as “pure” — she was 14 at the time — before molesting her. Like many predators, he preferred his victims troubled, making them easier to manipulate and less likely to be believed if they reported him.
Mr. Epstein reportedly had victims brought in up to three times a day, some from out of state, others from out of the country. More grotesque still, he was suspected of loaning girls out to his friends, hosting sex parties at his homes in the Caribbean, Manhattan, and New Mexico. In New York, a lawsuit is pending that accuses Mr. Epstein of employing a modeling agency to import girls as young as 13 from Europe and South America.
In response to The Herald’s expose, congressional lawmakers urged the Department of Justice to look into federal prosecutors’ handling of Mr. Epstein’s case. The Office of Professional Responsibility opened a misconduct investigation last month. Its findings will be reported back to lawmakers.
In last week’s ruling, Judge Kenneth Marra noted that the Crime Victims’ Rights Act “authorizes the rescission or ‘reopening’ of a prosecutorial agreement, including a non-prosecution agreement, reached in violation of a prosecutor’s conferral obligations under the statute.” Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, is agitating for such action. “Jeffrey Epstein is a monster, and his victims deserve justice,” the senator has charged, calling on the Justice Department to “reopen its non-prosecution agreement so that Epstein and anyone else who abused these children are held accountable.”
Accountability would be a refreshing change in this horror story. While Mr. Acosta was coddling a credibly accused monster, Mr. Epstein’s victims were being misled and stripped of their rights by the very people whose job it was to deliver them justice. In a 2011 letter to the media, Mr. Acosta defensively whined that he’d faced “a yearlong assault on the prosecution and the prosecutors” from Mr. Epstein’s intimidating legal team. His capitulation suggests he lacks the spine and moral decency to continue as labor secretary.
During his 2017 confirmation hearings, Mr. Acosta brushed back questions about Mr. Epstein, insisting that he had done his best. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, opposed his nomination, contending that Mr. Acosta’s handling of the case, “suggests he won’t put the interests of workers and everyday people ahead of the powerful and well-connected.”
Ms. Feinstein was being generous. The Epstein case shows that under Mr. Acosta, the rich and powerful got away with the most vile offenses. Both Congress and the administration must demand answers, both for Mr. Epstein’s victims and the American public. 
Vanessa C. Tyson, who has accused Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax of Virginia of sexually assaulting her at the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, released a statement on Wednesday describing her account of their encounter. Mr. Fairfax has denied the allegations. Read the full story here.
Here is the complete text of her statement:
On the night of Friday, February 1, 2019, I read multiple news accounts indicating that Virginia Lt. Governor Justin Fairfax would likely be elevated to Governor as an immediate result of a scandal involving Governor Ralph Northam. This news flooded me with painful memories, bringing back feelings of grief, shame, and anger that stemmed from an incident with Mr. Fairfax that occurred in July 2004 during the Democratic National Convention in Boston.
I met Mr. Fairfax on July 26, 2004, when he and I were working at the Convention. We struck up a conversation on the first day of the Convention and soon realized we had a mutual friend. We crossed paths occasionally during the first two days and our interactions were cordial, but not flirtatious. We commiserated about our long work hours, and on the afternoon of the third day of the Convention, July 28, 2004, Mr. Fairfax suggested that I get some fresh air by accompanying him on a quick errand to retrieve documents from his room in a nearby hotel. Given our interactions up to that time, I had no reason to feel threatened and agreed to walk with him to his hotel. I stood in the entryway of the room and after he located the documents, he walked over and kissed me. Although surprised by his advance, it was not unwelcome and I kissed him back. He then took my hand and pulled me towards the bed. I was fully clothed in a pantsuit and had no intention of taking my clothes off or engaging in sexual activity. In the back of my mind, I also knew I needed to return to Convention headquarters.
What began as consensual kissing quickly turned into a sexual assault. Mr. Fairfax put his hand behind my neck and forcefully pushed my head towards his crotch. Only then did I realize that he had unbuckled his belt, unzipped his pants, and taken out his penis. He then forced his penis into my mouth. Utterly shocked and terrified, I tried to move my head away, but could not because his hand was holding down my neck and he was much stronger than me. As I cried and gagged, Mr. Fairfax forced me to perform oral sex on him. I cannot believe, given my obvious distress, that Mr. Fairfax thought this forced sexual act was consensual. To be very clear, I did not want to engage in oral sex with Mr. Fairfax and I never gave any form of consent. Quite the opposite. I consciously avoided Mr. Fairfax for the remainder of the Convention and I never spoke to him again.
After the assault, I suffered from both deep humiliation and shame. I did not speak about it for years, and I (like most survivors) suppressed those memories and emotions as a necessary means to continue my studies, and to pursue my goal of building a successful career as an academic. At the time, I found this horrific incident especially degrading given my regular volunteer work at a local rape crisis center. Over the next decade or so, I would go on to earn my PhD from the University of Chicago and become a tenured professor at Scripps College, a prestigious women’s college in Claremont, California.
Years later, in October of 2017, I saw a picture of Mr. Fairfax accompanying an article in The Root about his campaign for Lt. Governor in Virginia. The image hit me like a ton of bricks, triggering buried traumatic memories and the feelings of humiliation I’d felt so intensely back in 2004. Prior to reading the article, I had not followed Mr. Fairfax’s career and did not know that he was seeking public office. Unsure of what to do, I felt it was crucial to tell close friends of mine in Virginia, who were voters, about the assault.
That October, as the #MeToo movement intensified, women throughout the world began forcefully speaking out about the sexual violence they had experienced and the impact of those experiences on their lives. The courage of so many women coming forward to confront powerful men and systems that allow such abuse to occur are part of what inspired me to action. I felt a responsibility to myself, the beloved students I teach, and the brave women I’ve tried to help overcome their own trauma. The passion and resolve of so many survivors, coupled with the job security that tenure afforded me, gave me the strength I simply did not have in 2004. By December 2017, I not only told many friends that Mr. Fairfax had sexually assaulted me but I also reached out to a personal friend at The Washington Post and spoke to his colleague about the assault.
After The Washington Post decided in March 2018 not to run my story, I felt powerless, frustrated, and completely drained. Again I tried to bury memories of this painful incident and focus on my work and my students.
On Friday, February 1, 2019, as stories appeared in the media suggesting that Governor Northam would have to resign and that Mr. Fairfax would be sworn in as Governor, I felt a jarring sense of both outrage and despair. That night I vented my frustration on Facebook in a message that I wrote as a private post. I did not identify Lt. Governor Fairfax by name but stated that it seemed inevitable that the campaign staffer who assaulted me during the Democratic Convention in 2004 was about to get a big promotion. It was not my intention in that moment to inject myself into what has become a much larger political battle.
The following morning, I was inundated with messages of care and concern from friends — including many I had told about the sexual assault — and numerous inquiries from journalists who had become aware of my post. Over the weekend, I was undecided about whether to speak out publicly. I knew that if I did so, I would immediately face accusations about my motives and be branded a liar, as is routinely the case when women come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct against prominent men.
On Sunday night, before I had time to decide on a course of action, an online publication published a screenshot of my Facebook post, identified me by name, and posted pictures of me. In response, at 2:55 a.m. on February 4, 2019, Mr. Fairfax issued a statement further escalating this matter by calling me a liar and falsely characterizing the reasons The Washington Post decided not to run a story about my allegations. The Post was forced to repudiate Mr. Fairfax’s statement that there were “significant red flags and inconsistencies within the allegations” which led it to decide not to publish a story about my account. Rather, as is often the case in situations where sexual assault by an acquaintance occurs behind closed doors years earlier, it is difficult to corroborate either the victim’s allegations or the accused’s denials.
Mr. Fairfax’s suggestion that The Washington Post found me not to be credible was deceitful, offensive, and profoundly upsetting. He has continued a smear campaign by pointing reporters to a 2007 educational video in which I talked about being the victim of incest and molestation. In that video I did not talk about being assaulted by Mr. Fairfax. This, of course, is not proof that he did not assault me. His reliance on this video to say the opposite is despicable and an offense to sexual assault survivors everywhere.
Since October 2017 when I first began telling friends about the assault, I have never wavered in my account because I am telling the truth. I have no political motive. I am a proud Democrat. My only motive in speaking now is to refute Mr. Fairfax’s falsehoods and aspersions of my character, and to provide what I believe is important information for Virginians to have as they make critical decisions that involve Mr. Fairfax.
With tremendous anguish, I am now sharing this information about my experience and setting the record straight. It has been extremely difficult to relive that traumatic experience from 2004. Mr. Fairfax has tried to brand me as a liar to a national audience, in service to his political ambitions, and has threatened litigation. Given his false assertions, I’m compelled to make clear what happened. I very much wish to resume my life as an academic and professor. I do not want to get further embroiled in this highly charged political environment.
This is the only statement I and my legal team will be making.
RICHMOND, Va. — The crisis gripping Virginia’s government spilled into the legislative branch Monday when a rift emerged between African-American lawmakers and a white state legislator attempting to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, who is facing demands he resign over two accusations of sexual assault.
Shortly after a second woman emerged Friday night to claim she had been raped by Mr. Fairfax, who is the highest ranking black official in the state government, Delegate Patrick A. Hope, a northern Virginia Democrat, said that he would file legislation to impeach the lieutenant governor if he did not resign by Monday. And on Sunday, with Mr. Fairfax refusing to quit, Mr. Hope circulated a resolution that would have directed a House committee to determine whether allegations of sexual assault against Mr. Fairfax by two women, Meredith Watson and Vanessa C. Tyson, were grounds for impeachment.
But on Monday, Mr. Hope backed off after black lawmakers demanded on a conference call of House Democrats that there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax at a moment when the state’s white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.
“Sometimes we have disagreements in the family, but we always are close-knit and we always come together,” Mr. Hope said, acknowledging he was pressured to abort his effort to impeach Mr. Fairfax. “Everyone wants the same outcome here.”
As the scandal engulfing Virginia’s three state elected officials entered its second week, it was clear that Mr. Fairfax, who denies both allegations, is in the gravest jeopardy. Four of his employees — two in his state office and two of his political aides — have quit, and he rushed out of the Capitol here with state police Monday at the end of the State Senate’s session to avoid answering questions about the resignations.
In an interview, Mr. Hope called for “a public hearing and a Virginia investigation” into Mr. Fairfax.
But his colleagues in the legislative black caucus, who have been agonizing over what to do about all three of the state’s executives since racist images from Gov. Ralph Northam’s medical school yearbook surfaced on Feb. 1, believe the claims against Mr. Fairfax should be litigated in a legal setting.
Delegate Lamont Bagby, the chairman of the black caucus, said Monday that it was important for Democrats to find “the proper avenue” to investigate the claims against Mr. Fairfax, and he made clear he did not think that was in the state Legislature.
“I think that’s what the accusers want, and the accused wants,” said Mr. Bagby, adding, “I think that’s what everyone needs, that’s what the commonwealth deserves and that’s what the accusers deserve.”
And Delegate Charniele L. Herring, who is the chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus and a former state party chairwoman, said she did not want any legislative inquiry to have an effect on a potential criminal investigation.
“I’m concerned about how it could impact a prosecution,” Ms. Herring said.
Yet the lawyer for Ms. Watson, who claims Mr. Fairfax raped her in 2000 while they were students at Duke University, indicated otherwise and ratcheted up the pressure on the state’s lawmakers to open an inquiry into the lieutenant governor.
“Meredith Watson asks the Virginia Legislature to hold hearings, regardless of what they are called, and to reject a secret and delayed proceeding,” said Nancy Erika Smith, the lawyer. “Both victims of his sexual assault have agreed to testify and they will produce witnesses and documents to show their honesty and good character. Please do not allow these women to be further victimized by delay and defamation.”
The tensions among Democrats here reached a simmer late Sunday night when the party’s House caucus dialed into a conference call.
One after another, a handful of black lawmakers spoke up to express their anger at Mr. Hope over what they see as his haste and making an already excruciating dilemma even more painful by trying to force them to take a public position on impeachment this week, according to three Virginia Democrats directly familiar with the call who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss party matters.
“Due process is important, which is exactly why I have called for resignation so Justin can take the time to do that versus the impeachment,” Delegate Lashrecse Aird, who was one of the lawmakers urging Mr. Hope to slow his push to impeachment, said in an interview Monday.
The black caucus has collectively called on Mr. Fairfax to resign. But there were unmistakable differences across racial lines in how the legislators viewed the matter.
“I believe both of these women,” Mr. Hope said of Mr. Fairfax’s accusers.
But some of the African-American lawmakers would not go that far: “I’m sensitive to anyone who has publicly had the bravery to come forward with these type of allegations,” Ms. Aird said.
Making an already delicate moment that much more awkward, a major tax measure working its way through the Legislature would not make a credit refundable for low-income Virginians. This prompted black caucus members to take to the floor Monday to denounce what one called “a bad deal” for black families in Virginia.
The state Capitol was still filled with local and out-of-town cameras and the building was a hive of activity as lawmakers sought to continue with the business of their legislative session.
[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]
When Mr. Fairfax arrived in the morning he simply repeated that he had “called for an independent investigation,” adding that he was “still very confident in the truth.”
But the lieutenant governor, who last week dismissed the first allegation against him as a “smear,” said in an interview published Monday that he wanted Americans to know him as someone who had “stood up for women and survivors to be heard.”
“They should be heard in every case,” he told The Root, a news website aimed at black readers, adding that it should not come at the expense of due process for the accused.
“I believe that what is happening now should be a model going forward in how we deal with survivors and their stories,” he said.
A case was opened in 2012, when a 12-year-old girl in Pennsylvania told her substitute teacher that a man had sexually assaulted her for years, and the teacher then told the police, according to a statement from the state attorney general’s office.
But seven more years passed before anyone was criminally charged — and one of the men who the girl said had abused her became a police chief.
On Wednesday, the Pennsylvania attorney general, Josh Shapiro, announced that Gregory Wagner, 28, and Brent Getz, 27, had been arrested on several charges, including child rape and aggravated indecent assault.
Both men are of Lehighton, Pa., and Mr. Getz was the chief of police in the neighboring borough of Weissport.
“This young girl was forced to face not one abuser, but two, who were working together, for seven years,” Mr. Shapiro said in a recorded statement. “Thank you to this survivor in this case, who bravely shared her truth and will bring her abusers to justice.”
Weissport is a small borough in Carbon County on the eastern side of the state, nestled between the Lehigh Canal and the Lehigh River. It is home to about 400 people. Mr. Getz was hired as a part-time officer for Weissport in 2017 and promoted to the chief of police in February, according to local news reports. The department is tiny, consisting of just one officer as recently as 2016.
It is unclear how many are on the force now. Neither the mayor nor the police department immediately responded to requests for comment on Wednesday evening, and borough council members could not be reached.
When the girl first reported the abuse to her teacher in 2012, she said she had been abused by Mr. Wagner, who was then 22, multiple times, according to the attorney general’s statement. The teacher went to the Franklin Township Police Department, which opened an investigation.
But for reasons that remain unclear, no charges were filed at the time. The Franklin Township police did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday evening.
About three years later, the case was reassigned, and the police prepared a criminal complaint against Mr. Wagner. But a magisterial district judge dismissed the complaint because of a paperwork error, the attorney general’s statement said.
The charges were not refiled. Three more years passed.
In August 2018, another Franklin Township officer looked at the case and interviewed the victim again. She then said that Mr. Getz, too, had sexually assaulted her.
“The victim revealed that, consistent with her prior disclosures and examinations, from age 4 to 11 she was orally, vaginally and anally raped by Wagner,” the statement from the attorney general said. “She reported that Getz would also join in these assaults. Additionally, she said that Wagner often made her watch pornography with him, which she recalled depicted teenagers.”
On Monday, Mr. Wagner’s residence was searched by the authorities, who found electronic devices with search histories indicative of child pornography, the attorney general’s office said. Mr. Wagner then admitted to sexually abusing the victim for years and said that Mr. Getz had abused her, too, the office said.
It was unclear whether the men had been appointed lawyers on Wednesday.
WASHINGTON — She paused to maintain her composure as she spoke. She recalled the attacks, and how her reports of them were handled. The despair, she said, almost made her leave the military.
Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, told a hushed Senate hearing room on Wednesday that she had been raped by a superior officer, one of multiple times she was sexually assaulted while she served her country.
“I thought I was strong, but felt powerless,” Ms. McSally said during a Senate Armed Services subcommittee hearing on sexual assault in the military. “The perpetrators abused their position of power in profound ways.”
[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about duty, conflict and consequence.]
In sharing her experience — pride in her historic military service, betrayal over the assault and determination to help find a solution — the junior senator from Arizona offered one of the most powerful testimonies to date in the growing and heated debate on Capitol Hill over how to adjudicate claims of sexual assault in the military.
Ms. McSally, a former member of the House who lost an Arizona Senate race last year and then was appointed to the seat once held by Senator John McCain, did not offer any details about the assaults or name the senior officer.
She said she did not immediately report the attacks because she “didn’t trust the system at the time.” Later, when she began talking about them, she said she was so horrified about how her account was handled that she thought about quitting the Air Force. “Like many victims, I felt like the system was raping me all over again,” Ms. McSally said.
A Pentagon report for fiscal year 2017, the most recent available, found that the Defense Department received 6,769 reports of sexual assault involving service members as either victims or subjects of criminal investigation, which was nearly a 10 percent increase over the 6,172 reports made the previous year. But according to figures gathered in 2016, annual rates of sexual assault over the past decade have decreased by half for active-duty women and by two-thirds for active-duty men.
Sexual assault claims remain challenging to prosecute, all the more so in the hierarchical culture of the military, which is governed by centuries-old systems of law and justice. Often cases are reported long after the fact — if at all — making them even harder to prosecute.
Ms. McSally’s explanation of why she did not report the assaults is typical of both men and women in the military who have historically feared retaliation from their peers or commanding officers. In 2014, the Pentagon released statistics based on a study conducted by the RAND Corporation that found that fewer than one-third of attacks in the military were reported, and that 52 percent of women who reported sexual assault said they had faced retaliation for doing so.
Ms. McSally, the first woman to command a fighter squadron, said she ultimately determined it would be best to remain in the Air Force.
“I decided to stay and continue to serve and fight and lead, to be a voice from within the ranks for women and then in the House and now the Senate,” said Ms. McSally, who retired from the Air Force after 26 years of service. “It’s personal from two perspectives — as a commander who led my airmen into combat and as a survivor of rape and betrayal.”
In an interview with CBS after the hearing, Ms. McSally said that she considered sexual assault in the military to be a national security threat, and that during the hearing, she had tried to offer a perspective as both a commander and a survivor, and to give hope to others.
“I want to shine a flashlight for them — that today can be a new day,” she said. “They can find their own purpose and not be held back and not be stopped from fulfilling all of their potential in life because of the awful things that they were victimized from.”
Ms. McSally had previously spoken, during her Senate race, about being sexually abused in high school, but she had not disclosed her experience in the Air Force. An aide to Ms. McSally said on Wednesday that Ms. McSally had spent days working on her remarks to the subcommittee.
A spokeswoman for the Air Force condemned on Wednesday “criminal actions” that “violate every part of what it means to be an airman.”
“We are appalled and deeply sorry for what Senator McSally experienced, and we stand behind her and all victims of sexual assault,” said the spokeswoman, Capt. Carrie J. Volpe. “We are steadfast in our commitment to eliminate this reprehensible behavior and breach of trust in our ranks.”
Ms. McSally’s testimony was met with an outpouring of support from her fellow lawmakers, including her female colleagues who have pushed the Pentagon to more forcefully address the issue of sexual assault.
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, who is running for president and who has made curbing sexual assault in the military one of her central policy goals, said she was grateful that Ms. McSally was present “and spoke that truth.”
Ms. Gillibrand, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel that Ms. McSally addressed, offered a measure in 2013 that would have taken sexual assault cases outside of the military chain of command and given military prosecutors, rather than accusers’ commanders, the power to decide which cases to try, a potential sea change to the military justice system.
That attempt failed, but in recent years, lawmakers have made changes to the military’s legal system, including ending the statute of limitations on assault and rape cases, making it a crime to retaliate against victims who report assaults and requiring the dishonorable discharge or the dismissal of anyone convicted of sexual assault or rape.
In a Congress with historic numbers of women, Ms. McSally’s revelation was another instance of a female lawmaker stepping forward to share a personal experience of trauma.
Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, came forward in January to say that she had been raped while she was in college and had been emotionally and physically abused by her husband. Representative Katie Porter, Democrat of California and a single mother of three, has spoken openly about the domestic abuse she said she suffered in her marriage.
Ms. Ernst said she sent Ms. McSally a message after her testimony, saying, “I love you and I support you.”
“I think she’s pretty darn incredible,” Ms. Ernst said.
Ms. McSally flew an A-10 Thunderbolt II attack aircraft while enforcing the no-fly zone over southern Iraq after the 1991 Persian Gulf war. She was deployed in Kuwait in January 1995, and took command of the 354th Fighter Squadron in July 2004.
“We are survivors together,” Ms. McSally concluded in her prepared remarks, “and I am honored to be here and use my voice and unique experience to work on this mission to stop military sexual assault for good.”
If you or someone you know is being abused, support and help are available. Visit the National Domestic Violence Hotline website or call 800-799-7233.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Cardinal George Pell, the highest-ranking Roman Catholic leader ever convicted of sexual abuse, will not face a second trial on an additional round of assault allegations involving young boys.
The earlier verdict was unsealed on Tuesday only after prosecutors decided they could not proceed with the second trial after a legal setback.
The decision came just days before the cardinal was set to be sentenced for abusing two 13-year-old choirboys more than two decades ago.
Cardinal Pell, 77, was found guilty in December of sexually assaulting the boys. But a judge barred news outlets from publishing anything about the verdict, citing concerns that coverage might influence a jury in the second trial.
On Tuesday, with the new trial no longer in the works, the judge lifted the gag order.
The earlier case related to abuse that took place in 1996.
A former adviser to Pope Francis, the cardinal was found guilty of forcing oral sex onto a 13-year-old boy after Sunday Mass in the sacristy of St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Melbourne. At the time, Cardinal Pell was the city’s archbishop.
He was also convicted of an assault in which he grabbed a boy’s genitals.
Sentencing proceedings in that trial are expected to begin on Wednesday.
The second trial was to focus on allegations of child abuse dating to the 1970s, when he was a parish priest in his hometown, Ballarat, Australia.
A jury was expected to hear testimony from three complainants, who were children at the time of the alleged assaults.
One child accused the cardinal of touching his genitals on multiple occasions from 1978 to 1979, as they played in the local swimming pool.
Another said he had also been abused at the pool, between 1977 and 1979. He said the cardinal had touched his testicles as he was throwing him into the water.
A third complainant, whose allegations were not made part of a formal charge, said that in 1975 or 1976, he was playing in the water with Cardinal Pell at Lake Boga, about 200 miles from Melbourne.
At one point, he said, he slipped from the cardinal’s shoulders and was hit in the face with his erect penis. The cardinal smiled, the boy said.
“Don’t worry, it’s only natural,” he said, the boy recounted.
The verdict in the first trial was made subject to a suppression order that barred publication in Australia of any news related to the case.
[Read the article about the conviction that was blocked from online publication until now.]
Prosecutors preparing for the second trial had hoped to prove that his history of abuse proved that Cardinal Pell had a tendency toward molesting children.
Under Australian law, a judge may admit such only evidence if its evidentiary value outweighs the risk of prejudice to the defendant.
In this case, Judge Peter Kidd of County Court in Victoria ruled, it did not. The prosecution then decided to drop the new cases.
The sister of one of the complainants, who asked she not be named to protect her brother, said that while her family was disappointed at the collapse of the second trial, it was “overjoyed” that Cardinal Pell was found guilty in the earlier one.
She said she hoped that other people would be encouraged to come forward with their own stories of abuse.
“This has been David and Goliath type stuff,” she said.
The Pell cases come at a time of stepped-up action by the church against abusive clergy members.
Last week, the pope expelled Theodore E. McCarrick, a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington, from the priesthood after the church found him guilty of sexually abusing minors and adult seminarians. It was the first time a cardinal was defrocked for sexual abuse, though the scandal has tarred the church for decades.
In a landmark summit at the Vatican this week, Pope Francis called an “all-out battle against the abuse of minors.”
But survivors and advocates have been disappointed by what they say is a continued lack of action by the church.
After his conviction, Cardinal Pell’s career effectively ended. Once often called the third-most-powerful man in the Vatican, the cardinal oversaw the church’s finances. But he was expelled from a group of papal advisers in December.
“There are no winners,” said Andrew Collins, a clergy sexual abuse survivor from Ballarat. But, he said, “It’s part of the bloodletting that’s needed to happen for the Catholic church.”
MIAMI — Prosecutors led by Alexander R. Acosta, who is now the secretary of labor, violated federal law when they failed to tell victims about an agreement not to prosecute Jeffrey E. Epstein, a wealthy New York financier accused of molesting dozens of underage girls, a federal judge ruled on Thursday.
The agreement not to pursue federal sex trafficking charges, negotiated in secret while prosecutors told victims that a case against Mr. Epstein was still possible, violated the federal Crime Victims’ Rights Act, ruled Judge Kenneth A. Marra of Federal District Court in West Palm Beach, Fla. He gave the government and the two victims who sued 15 days to discuss what remedy should apply in the case.
Federal prosecutors had initially drafted a 53-page indictment against Mr. Epstein, but under the deal negotiated in 2008, he pleaded guilty to lesser state charges of soliciting a minor for prostitution and served 13 months at the Palm Beach County Stockade. While there, Mr. Epstein was allowed to leave custody and work out of his office six days a week.
The court’s ruling on Thursday could nullify the non-prosecution agreement and subject Mr. Epstein and any co-conspirators in the case to new federal charges, said Jack Scarola, a lawyer for the two victims who challenged the agreement.
But even if the deal is set aside, prosecutors could draft a new, similar agreement, this time with full disclosure to the victims, Mr. Scarola said.
Mr. Epstein’s accusers have sought justice for years. Interest in the case was renewed in the #MeToo era, after some women publicly detailed Mr. Epstein’s assaults in a report published by The Miami Herald last year. The Justice Department said earlier this month that it had opened an investigation into potential professional misconduct by prosecutors who negotiated Mr. Epstein’s plea deal.
Mr. Acosta was the United States attorney in Miami at the time the agreement was negotiated. Mr. Epstein’s accusers were mostly teenage girls at the time of the abuse; because prosecutors did not notify them about the deal in advance, they were unable to object before it went into effect.
In his ruling, Judge Marra called it “particularly problematic” that the government had concealed the existence of the 2008 agreement and misled the victims “to believe that federal prosecution was still a possibility.”
“When the government gives information to victims, it cannot be misleading,” he wrote.
Investigators found that from 1999 to 2005, Mr. Epstein, a former hedge fund manager with powerful friends, including President Trump and former President Bill Clinton, lured girls as young as 14 or 15 years old into his mansions in Palm Beach, New York and the Virgin Islands. He paid them cash to engage in nude massages, masturbation and oral sex. In some instances, he asked girls to recruit other girls into his sex ring, the accusers told police.
In a statement responding to the court ruling on Thursday, a spokeswoman for the Labor Department said the decisions made by Mr. Acosta’s prosecutors had been defended by the Justice Department for more than a decade “in litigation across three administrations and several attorneys general.”
“The office’s decisions were approved by departmental leadership and followed departmental protocols,” the statement added.
A spokeswoman for United States attorney’s office in Miami declined to comment.
Fresh outrage over the case in recent months has prompted congressional inquiries and a digital advertising campaign from Allied Progress, a progressive group that is urging the Senate to authorize an investigation by the Justice Department’s inspector general. The current Justice Department investigation, announced earlier this month in response to requests by Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, is led by the department’s Office of Professional Responsibility.
The two victims who sued to challenge the non-prosecution agreement are identified in court papers as “Jane Doe 1” and “Jane Doe 2,” though The Herald has identified Jane Doe 1 as Courtney Wild. The women’s lawyer, Bradley J. Edwards, settled a separate lawsuit against Mr. Epstein in state court in December, days after the Herald report was published. As part of that settlement, Mr. Epstein said in a statement delivered by one of his lawyers that he apologized for wrongfully suing Mr. Edwards in an attempt to hurt his reputation and stop him from pursuing the current case based on the federal Crime Victims’ Rights Act.
Mr. Edwards did not immediately respond to phone or email requests for comment.
Mr. Scarola said several other aspects of the case remain to be decided, but the ruling on Thursday was important for the victims.
“We’ve been waiting for a long time,” he said. “It is one significant step in the right direction, though we still have a ways to go.”
The graffiti showed up on the door of a Harvard University building last week: “Our rage is self-defense,” and “Whose side are you on?”
The unexpected target was Ronald S. Sullivan Jr., who is an accomplished lawyer, the director of Harvard’s criminal-law clinic and the first African-American to be appointed as a faculty dean.
Earlier this year, Mr. Sullivan joined a team of lawyers representing the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, who heads to trial in June in Manhattan on rape and related charges.
The move set off protests and intense debate at the Ivy League campus, where a small, but vocal, group of students have called for his resignation as dean of Winthrop House, one of Harvard’s residential colleges for undergraduate students.
Some students said they did not believe Mr. Sullivan was fit to serve as a dean of a residential college and at the same time represent Mr. Weinstein, who has been accused by more than 80 women of sexual harassment and, in some cases, assault.
In his first public remarks, Mr. Sullivan said in a phone interview on Monday that he did not anticipate the level of backlash he has received. He has a long history of taking on high-profile and, at times, controversial clients, as well as representing students who have been victims of sexual assault, he said.
“Lawyers are not an extension of their clients,” Mr. Sullivan said. “Lawyers do law work, not the work of ideology. When I’m in my lawyer capacity, representing a client, even one publicly vilified, it doesn’t mean I’m supporting anything the client may have done.”
Some students disagree. Dozens of protesters, some with tape over their mouths, protested last month in front of the administration building, holding signs that said “Remove Sullivan” and “#MeToo.” About 270 people have signed an online petition calling for him to resign from his faculty dean position.
“Do you really want to one day accept your diploma from someone who for whatever reason, professional or personal, believes it is O.K. to defend such a prominent figure at the center of the #MeToo movement?” one student, Danu Mudannayake, wrote in the petition.
In the past week, the doors of Winthrop House were spray-painted with graffiti and had fliers posted on them that included an illustration of Mr. Sullivan that some students described as “racially insensitive.”
The fliers, which were also distributed throughout the campus, included images of Mr. Weinstein and Roland Fryer Jr., a Harvard economics professor who has been accused of sexual harassment.
Protests regarding Mr. Sullivan’s representation of Mr. Weinstein have erupted at the college, and members of the Association of Black Harvard Women said in a public letter addressed to Mr. Sullivan: “You have failed us.”
But many of Mr. Sullivan’s colleagues have come to his defense. Dozens of law professors from the university sent a letter to the college on Feb. 14 in support of Mr. Sullivan. On Feb. 28, The Chronicle of Higher Education published an article by Randall Kennedy, a Harvard law professor, who wrote:
“Those calling for Sullivan’s resignation or dismissal as a faculty dean solely because he is serving as Harvey Weinstein’s lawyer in a rape prosecution are displaying an array of disturbingly widespread tendencies. One is impatience with drawing essential distinctions such as that between a lawyer and his client. Another is a willingness to minimize or dispense with important safeguards like fair trials. Yet another is a tendency to resort to demonization.”
The dean of Harvard College, Rakesh Khurana, said in a statement on Feb. 20 regarding Mr. Sullivan that the right to a vigorous defense is a cornerstone of the justice system. Yet he also announced last week that the college would conduct a “climate review” of how students at Winthrop House viewed Mr. Sullivan’s representation of Mr. Weinstein and “take action as appropriate,” according to The Harvard Crimson.
“It is not lost on me that I’m the first African-American to hold this position,” Mr. Sullivan said. “Never in the history of the faculty dean position has the dean been subjected to a ‘climate review’ in the middle of some controversy.”
A spokeswoman for the university declined to comment.
Mr. Sullivan has had other controversial clients. He defended Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots player, at his second murder trial, when he was acquitted of murdering two men in Boston. Mr. Sullivan also represented the family of Usaamah Rahim, a man shot by the Boston police who had been accused of being a terrorist.
Mr. Sullivan has largely built a career helping to overturn wrongful convictions, and he designed an indigent defense system in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina that resulted in the exoneration of thousands of people falsely convicted of crimes.
The Brooklyn district attorney’s office tapped Mr. Sullivan in 2014 to design a conviction integrity unit to identify wrongfully convicted people; it has become a national model. In 2017, he also helped the family of Michael Brown, a man killed by the police in Missouri, obtain a reported $1.5 million settlement from the City of Ferguson after the family had filed a wrongful-death suit.
Ms. Mudannayake, a design editor at The Harvard Crimson, said that students’ quarrel with Mr. Sullivan was not that he took on a controversial, high-profile client.
But she said that faculty deans like Mr. Sullivan are responsible for setting the tone and culture in their houses, and students in Winthrop House felt that Mr. Sullivan’s representation of Mr. Weinstein disrupted the safe atmosphere of their community.
“Everyone on this campus knows what #MeToo is and who Harvey Weinstein is,” she said. “And it’s just shocking that it’s been brought quite literally to some students’ doorsteps.”
Mr. Sullivan wrote in an email to Winthrop students in January that all defendants, even the most disliked, have “basic due process rights.” On Monday, he said the students’ concern was genuine, but misplaced.
Mr. Sullivan called the controversy “a teachable moment,” and expressed concern that the climate review could have a chilling effect on faculty who engage in work that may be unpopular.
One former student, whose name is being withheld because she is a survivor of sexual assault, said she had no problem with Mr. Sullivan representing Mr. Weinstein. Mr. Sullivan, she said, has been a staunch advocate for victims and had represented her with her case. She said she had trusted only two people to tell about the attack, and one was Mr. Sullivan.
The woman, who went on to become a sex crimes prosecutor, said in an interview on Monday that one unfortunate effect of the #MeToo movement was a tendency for the public to rush to judgment when someone is accused of sexual assault “without affording any sort of due process.”
Diana L. Eck, a longtime faculty dean at Harvard, said that it seemed students in Winthrop House felt Mr. Sullivan’s outside work as a defense lawyer was “fracturing that sense of community” and making it harder for students in Winthrop House to discuss sexual assault openly.
“There’s nobody that would think that every single person doesn’t deserve the best possible legal representation in court — of course we believe that,” Ms. Eck said. “It’s just, you know, to what extent does that commitment to legal representation in a very high-profile case like this collide with the responsibilities of being a community leader at Harvard?”
HONG KONG — Many members of the Uighur ethnic group living in exile are worried that their relatives back home in China are locked up in internment camps — or dead.
So when China released a video this past week to prove that a prominent Uighur musician had not died in custody as rumored, Uighurs around the world sat up.
“Show me that my father is alive and well!” one wrote on Twitter. “Where are my relatives?” another asked. In one clip, a child held up a photo of her missing father, weeping as she said: “Show his video to us.”
Murat Harri Uyghur, a doctor living in Finland, and a group of fellow activists gave the campaign a hashtag, #MeTooUyghur (#MenmuUyghur in Uighur), and urged others to add their voices to it.
“Now, we want to know, where are millions of #Uyghurs?” the doctor wrote, using an alternate spelling of Uighur. He referred to reports that China is holding a million or more Uighurs, Kazakhs and members of other mostly Muslim Turkic minorities in internment camps in the far western Xinjiang region.
Mr. Uyghur said he and other activists hoped to echo the #MeToo campaign led by survivors of sexual assault and harassment. At first, they were afraid the hashtag would be offensive to women, Mr. Uyghur said by telephone.
“But then we said the Uighurs are also abused,” he said. “As a nation, it is like we were raped.”
The social media campaign is part of a nascent effort to collect testimony and maintain a list of detainees — like an expanding wall of missing persons notices — to put pressure on China and demand answers: Who is being held in the sprawling network of camps? Are they alive or dead? What are the conditions like? And where are the children, the elderly and the infirm?
The campaign strikes at the heart of Beijing’s effort to portray the camps as job training facilities, meant to improve detainees’ lives and foster stability in a once-restive region. Former detainees deny that, saying the camps are prisonlike facilities where they were forced to renounce devotion to Islam and praise the ruling Communist Party. In recent months, evidence of a system of forced labor in the camps has emerged.
At a regular news briefing, Hua Chunying, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, sought to discredit accounts of abuses reported by the foreign media, saying that they were “made up out of thin air” or that the individuals in question did not exist.
Asked to comment on the #MeTooUyghur campaign, Ms. Hua said: “China has a population of more than one billion. Do we need to send out a video of every one of them?”
The camps have drawn international condemnation, including a rare rebuke from a Muslim-majority country, Turkey, this month. Turkey’s statement said that the well-known Uighur musician Abdurehim Heyit had died in Chinese custody, prompting an official Chinese news service to post a video the next day of Mr. Heyit, who said he was healthy and under investigation.
Within hours, Uighurs had begun posting about their own missing relatives.
The diaspora has not always been so outspoken. Many Uighurs and Kazakhs have feared that speaking out about detained friends and relatives would invite Chinese retaliation against their families.
Mr. Uyghur, the doctor in Finland, was among them. When his mother was detained in April 2017, followed by his father, he kept silent. But out of desperation, he eventually recorded a video of himself denouncing China for his parents’ plight.
That clip, which he posted on Facebook in May 2018, was a then-rare personal account of the indoctrination program, which by that point had incarcerated at least hundreds of thousands of people.
Now, with China showing no sign of curbing the program — and evidence emerging that the camps are growing in size and number — more Uighurs have been going public. Thousands have posted short videos or added names and details to lists of the missing.
“People have started to stand up,” Mr. Uyghur said. “Psychologically, they are suffering. They don’t know what to do, but this might give them hope.”
Last year, he founded a human rights group, UyghurAid, that is compiling recordings from around the world with the help of 30 volunteers. Activists are uploading those and other accounts to a single site, the Xinjiang Victims Database, which compiles names and biographical details of people believed to be held in the camps.
The database contained more than 2,700 names as of Friday, a tiny fraction of the estimated total number of detainees.
But each testimony about a missing loved one, the activists say, is a reminder that these are individuals with families and communities. And the pleas, often emotional, undermine the state’s narrative that the detainees are voluntarily participating in their indoctrination, they say.
Human rights advocates say such a database also gives foreign diplomats specific information that they can raise with Beijing.
“Once you have a list of thousands of testimonies, you can shove it in their faces,” said Gene Bunin, a Russian-American translator who started compiling the database in September with a small group of colleagues.
Some activists believe their campaigns have already made a difference.
In interviews last month in Almaty, Kazakhstan, a half-dozen Kazakhs said public appeals had pressured the authorities to release them or their relatives from internment camps. Atajurt Kazakh Human Rights, an activist group, has recorded hundreds of video appeals.
Zharqynbek Otan, 31, a cook who was arrested in January 2017 and held in a camp for seven months, said he probably owed his freedom to the unceasing petitioning of his wife, Shynar Kylysheva, who is a Kazakh citizen.
“I am very happy to have such a wife who will do everything to get me back,” he said. Without her efforts, he said, he might have ended up a laborer in one of the camp network’s factories.
But these campaigns have encountered pushback.
A group of Kazakh intellectuals recently called for Atajurt to be closed, saying the group harms Kazakhstan’s relationship with China. Atajurt’s head, Serikzhan Bilash, is being tried in Kazakhstan on a charge of running an unregistered organization.
Some activists are being pressured by the very people they are trying to help.
Gaziz Ornykhanuly said that shortly after he provided video testimony to Atajurt about his wife’s detention, she was released from a camp. But she is unable to leave Xinjiang to join him and their two daughters in Kazakhstan. In phone calls, he said, she insists she is happy to stay.
“China is the biggest country in the world, the biggest economy,” she said, according to Mr. Ornykhanuly. “Why would we leave China?”
He said she had urged him — under coercion, he believes — to stop working with Atajurt, the activist group. But he said he would continue to do so, by translating statements about missing people into Russian.
“By helping people, I can ease this pain in my heart,” he said. “I’m witnessing all that has happened to Kazakhs and Uighurs in China, and I want to at least let the world know.”
If the average cultural experience demands the suspension of disbelief, if we oughtn’t think too much about this movie we’re watching, this novel we’re reading, this magic trick being performed right before our eyes, if being entertained means setting aside skepticism, logic and possibly a sense of morality, then what a magic trick we had in Michael Jackson.
He lived in defiance of physics and race and gender, and we just kind of lived with that. We ate it up. Just the odyssey of his nose from bulb to nub seemed somehow like a people’s journey. For so long, so much about Michael Jackson won our awe, our pity, our bewilderment, our identification, our belief that he was a metaphor, an allegory, a beacon, a caveat — for, of, about America. You need to do a lot of looking at him to feel this way. You also need to do a lot of looking the other way.
But, eventually, all the suspension reaches a logical end. You run out of hooks to hang things on. There’s a moment in “Leaving Neverland,” Dan Reed’s documentary about Jackson’s alleged pedophilia, where I simply ran out of hooks. The movie devotes itself to two men, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, who claim, in separate accounts, that Jackson sexually abused them for years, from boyhood into adolescence.
[Michael Jackson’s history of sexual abuse accusations.]
And of all the allegations, the moment that really got me is the ring.
Now, this is 90 minutes into a four-hour movie, which HBO is showing in two parts starting Sunday, and I’ve learned how Jackson has ingratiated himself into two families, starting around 1987 or ’88, after the release of his album “Bad,” during his world tour. I’ve heard a recording of a mock interview Jackson does with Safechuck, a solidly middle-class Southern California boy, in which Jackson says the best part of a trip to Hawaii that he arranged for the boy and his mom was “being with James Safechuck.”
I’ve stared at a lingering shot of a photograph of Jackson, who would have been around 30 and Safechuck who was about 9 or 10, and Jackson is beaming in sunglasses and a military jacket, flashing a peace sign, and James, in a too-big baseball cap, is turning to the camera, looking alarmingly ruminative for someone whose life should be rumination-free. By the time you get to the ring, I’ve already heard how Jackson lured Safechuck into sex, by masturbation (James, again, is about 10), and how the closer he got to James on tour, the farther the parents’ hotel room would get from their son’s.
The way Safechuck remembers it, there was so much sex, and he says Jackson told him that if anybody found out about it, their lives would be over. I’ve heard about Michael buying the Neverland complex in Santa Barbara County, Calif., (mansion, amusement park, zoo!) and the elaborate system of doors and bells to alert Jackson of any encroachment on the lair in which some of the abuse supposedly occurred. I’ve seen Wade Robson, a doll-faced Michael Jackson impersonator from Brisbane, Australia, say he was 7 when Michael began abusing him, describing a grim scenario in which he was naked on all fours at the edge of the bed, poised — trapped — between his idol, who was masturbating to him, and a cutout of Peter Pan.
I’ve heard all of this — and a distressing deal more — by the time the documentary gets to the part where Jackson allegedly takes Safechuck shopping for a ring. But there’s something about the way the filmmakers reserve this scene for the back end of Part 1 that ices your bones, something about the way an adult Safechuck doesn’t seem to want to go back there. But here he is, talking in a TV documentary about the vows he says that he and Jackson exchanged. Here he is, forlorn, holding the ring that he’s kept, all this time, in a handsome box.
The story of the ring and the vows feels as graphic as the memories of masturbation and French kissing and nipple tweaking. If you happen to be the sort of person who’d try to balance, say, the multiple counts of child molestation Jackson was charged with in 2003 and acquitted of later with extenuating details from Jackson’s biography (Wasn’t he abused and too famous too soon and prematurely sexualized? He never had a childhood! He’s still a child!), if you partook in the steady diet of fluffy news stories about Jackson and some little boy (often identified as “Jackson’s friend”) and thought mostly that they were cute or banal and that Jackson just related to kids as kids — like, platonically — if you thought that he couldn’t know there was a real difference between adult passion and child’s play, then perhaps you’ll find Safechuck’s memory of the ring particularly shattering. I did. It’s so private and wrong, not just to us but clearly to Jackson, who makes up a story at the jewelry store that the ring is for a woman, even though Safechuck is there by his side.
He knew.
I’m staring at the coat rack looking for somewhere to suspend more disbelief, and there’s no more room. I have to hold this.

“LEAVING NEVERLAND” is long but delicately, patiently done — and so quiet; you can practically hear yourself listening. It’s not a feat of investigative journalism so much as an act of bearing witness. Reed sits, individually, with Safechuck and his mother, Stephanie, and with Robson and his mother, Joy, and his siblings, Chantal and Shane. It doesn’t try to make cultural or political sense of the allegations. It’s not a masterpiece saga about fame, race, gender, sexuality and the legal system; it’s not “M.J.: Made in America.” (For a long view, there’s “On Michael Jackson,” Margo Jefferson’s pungent, essential critical X-ray from 2006.) “Leaving Neverland” is about one man’s possible contribution to the ruin of two families and the anguish that still disturbs them and, in some way, how that ruin and anguish should disturb us.
The movie presents Jackson almost entirely from the two families’ points of view, in photographs, answering machine messages and a montage of lovey-dovey faxes he sent to his “little one,” which is what Wade remembers Jackson calling him. He even remembers the lullaby Jackson built around the phrase. The movie recreates for us the haze Jackson cast over them. Its only moments of disputation arrive in the form of television, from, say, Jackson’s defense lawyers during the 2004-5 trial, and, in 1993, from Jackson himself, in a recorded statement against molestation charges brought by the father of Jordan Chandler. (It was nationally broadcast, as news.)
Reed appears to have encouraged everyone in the movie to try to be in the original moment as best they can. For James, Wade and the rest of the on-camera participants (Wade’s grandmother is here, too, as are, in Part 2, both men’s wives), they seem happy enough in the early telling, when everyone’s a little star-struck. So the movie has a real emotional arc — as well as an abundance of orchestral strings and too many handsome drone shots. The tears don’t come until well into hour four. James, though, appears to be reliving it all. He winces, cringes and grimaces; he does a lot of nervous neck scratching.
It’s here that I should offer the Jackson estate’s disclaimer. It vehemently denies what James and Wade allege, and is suing HBO for $100 million. The movie breaches a nondisparagement clause in a contract with Jackson from the early 1990s, according to the suit. Around 1993, James and Wade told the authorities that Jackson didn’t molest them; and Wade testified in court on Jackson’s behalf in 2005. Several years ago, both men filed lawsuits against the estate that were dismissed because of statutes of limitations. And their suits are now under appeal. Fatherhood and, presumably, therapy have encouraged both men to reverse their stories, acknowledge what they believe happened to them and tell their families that they lied about not being abused.
This is a strategy that puts a lot of faith in the accusers and obviates the possibility of counterargument. Much is asserted and nothing’s proven, and yet you do come to understand how a mix of showbiz and fandom brought so many boys into Jackson’s life. James starred in a 1986 Pepsi commercial with him. Wade’s uncannily sharp impersonation wins him some nights onstage during the “Bad” tour. Both Stephanie and Joy, the mothers, seem proud to have raised sons so appealing to the planet’s most worshiped person. He tells the Safechucks how lonely he is. And so, in an alarming throwaway detail, the family starts disguising Jackson in order to sneak him out of Hayvenhurst, his pre-Neverland estate, and into their normal, suburban house. It’s like he actually was E.T. At the Safechucks, Jackson could be a regular, what exactly, kid? We do see Polaroids of him sans make up, doing funny faces, looking guilelessly happy, so yeah, sure: a kid.

HAVING STEPHANIE AND JOY speak here as much as they do is a relief for any number of reasons. But let’s just focus on two. First, they’ve had some time to process all of this. They’re lucid. Jackson’s trial, conducted on behalf of a 13-year-old, Gavin Arvizo, featured testimony from Janet Arvizo, the boy’s mother, who spent five days on the stand and, by most accounts, was a terrible witness for her son. She claimed Jackson imprisoned her family, and yet she was allegedly free to leave Neverland to pamper herself? She snapped her fingers at the jury. The defense claimed she committed welfare fraud, for which she was later prosecuted. So we shifted the blame. What’s wrong with her?
The parents of any kid who passed through Neverland were more convenient to indict. How could you let your child sleep in an adult’s bed? It’s been 15 years, though. Someone should find Janet Arvizo and give her a do-over.
That brings me back to how crucial it feels to have Stephanie and Joy speaking in this documentary. (Neither man’s father is interviewed, although, in the case of James’s, we never find out exactly why.) You can’t hear a parent wrestle with this blame question enough, whether it’s being asked in relation to R. Kelly or Michael Jackson, your pastor or your priest: How could they let their child spend that much time with an adult stranger? There’s never a “right” or “good” answer. But faith is usually a factor. And faith entails a suspension of disbelief.
The mothers both mention an early limit they set. For Stephanie, it was refusing to let James sleep in Jackson’s room on that trip to Hawaii. And Joy recalls vehemently nixing Jackson’s request to abscond with Wade for a year. But Jackson ultimately wins, anyway. He gets his way, in part, because he could be as manipulative as he could be affectionate, but also because each woman feels, in her way, maternal toward him. He was, both women more or less say, a member of their families. Both families defended him, in the moment, against detractors and accusers. Both boys denied that they were molested — Wade at the trial and to the news media; James to his mother and to a grand jury. So their sons’ falling under his spell — that required some suspension of disbelief. The mothers had fallen, too.
We all had. It was so easy to fall.

NOBODY BOUGHT MORE Michael Jackson vinyl LPs than we did of “Thriller.” The euphoria for anything associated with that album was cross-racial and intergenerational. Upon visiting anybody’s house, I’d ask if they had a copy. If the answer was “no,” I’d turn into a 1980s sitcom kid and say something like, “What is your problem?” (I would have been 7, 8 or 9.) If the answer was “yes,” I’d ask to play it, and while it was on, I’d lie on the floor and take long drags on the album’s inside photo: Jackson, in a white suit, lying on his side, one leg bent, looking at us. On the knee of his bent leg is a tiger — a tiger cub. I stared with deep longing. He was so pretty, with his absurd curls and isosceles triangle of a nose and creamy brown face. I’m calling it a photo when, really, it was a centerfold. But what did I want from that picture? What did I want from Jackson? Friendship? A handshake? A souvenir? A hug?
Pictures and TV footage of Jackson and other boys were easy enough to come across — him and Emmanuel Lewis, him and Alfonso Ribeiro, him and Sean Lennon (none of whom have accused him of any abuse), him and E.T., him and the boy I now know is James Safechuck. There were so many of him and James. Google didn’t make these images simple to find. Magazines did. Teen magazines. I wanted a picture, too. I wanted the warmth and surprise and serious, only-us closeness in some of those images, although James never looks entirely happy in many of them. The seriousness I identified in a lot of the boys’ faces is what adult-me would now call stress.
At the time, I wanted my friends to see Michael Jackson whisking me out of airports and into limousines. I didn’t do an imitation of him or anything, and I never begged my mother to take me to see him. She didn’t have money for that. MTV and “Entertainment Tonight” and the stray issue of Right On! would have to do. But what if I did beg and begged because I was really good at being Michael Jackson? Would that have made a difference? Would she have sacrificed our little family to make my 7-year-old’s dream come true?
Ideally, a parent is a backstop against innocent fervor; against foolish, zealous choices and blissful ignorance. So I have to believe that my mother would have saved me from the hazards of my desire. That was her job. But that’s what adult Wade and James think their mothers’ job should have been, too. What’s still eating each woman up, toward the end of “Leaving Neverland,” is that neither woman disagrees.
It’s entirely possible that we’ve spent the last 26 years preparing for a moment like this — for somebody to lay it all out, graphically, frankly; for somebody to tell us a story, their story. For a long time, the chief teller of any such story was Jackson himself. He would install his sense of persecution into music videos, like the one for “Leave Me Alone,” from 1989, the finale of “Black or White,” from 1991, and “Ghosts,” from 1997, into songs like “Why You Wanna Trip on Me?” (1991), “Scream” (1995) and “They Don’t Care About Us” (1996). Very good songs, mostly about his tribulations as a so-called weirdo (the tabloids named him Wacko Jacko) and, especially, as a black man.
He tried, in highly rated television interviews, to let us see him as wounded and vulnerable and, well, normal. In 1993, he let Oprah Winfrey grill him (about the boys, but also about his altered appearance). He would let Martin Bashir do an occasionally pseudo-vérité version of the same, in a roving two-hour, 2003 TV documentary (“Living With Michael Jackson”) that exposes him as being helpless against himself. (There’s a long, astounding passage, for instance, in which Jackson leads a caravan of children on a Neverland excursion, and he seems taxed by such an overwhelming — and overwhelmingly absurd — babysitting assignment. Yet he’s able to bring himself to have one of his park’s homemade snow cones, anyway. It’s like the parody of Jackson’s hapless eccentricity you can see in Harmony Korine’s celebrity-impersonator film, “Mister Lonely,” and in the “Teddy Perkins” episode of FX’s “Atlanta.”) Then, after his arraignment in 2004, Jackson even danced, for appreciative fans, atop a car. Five years later he was dead.
The story was that Jackson never molested anybody. And we stuck to it, and it stuck to him. And the question now, of course, is what do we do? It’s the question of our #MeToo times: If we believe the accusers (and I believe Wade and James), what do we do with the art? With Jackson, what can we do? Wade became a successful choreographer who’s made a career out of teaching his version of Jackson’s hydraulic bounces, whips, and stutters to Britney Spears, ‘N Sync, Cirque du Soleil and rooms full of aspiring dancers. “Look Back at It,” the big single from A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie’s No. 1 album from January, is built out of two Jackson hits. Michael Jackson’s music isn’t a meal. It’s more elemental than that. It’s the salt, pepper, olive oil and butter. His music is how you start. And the music made from that — that music is everywhere, too. Where would the cancellation begin?
Jackson provided us an early occasion to ask the question about the art without ever realizing it was being asked. We simply lived with it, with the possibility of his guilt, and the many compartments we make to contain everything he was: the conscientious enthusiasm for and the comedy of him, the tragedy he so obviously represents. Perhaps we can live it because it’s not unreasonable to wonder whether he was living with the contradictions himself.
There is something about the way Jackson morphed from pretty to disfigured, closer to Joseph Merrick, the medical case study whose “elephant man” bones Jackson swore he never tried to buy. The morphing could have been a result of the pigmentation ailment, vitiligo, that he told Winfrey he suffered from. But what if all of that change he so notoriously underwent, all the damage he seemed to wear on his body, all the creatures his videos turned him into (werewolves, zombies, a panther, a skeleton), what if his outward self became some semiconscious manifestation of a monster that lurked within?
The Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau. Sign up to get it by email.
___
When you’re lucky enough to get a visit from Sam Sifton, The New York Times’s food editor, you eat. And when you eat with Sam, you learn and you gorge.
This week, we did oodles of both at Momofuku Seiobo in Sydney, thanks to the chef Paul Carmichael.
He cooked for a small group of us. We were seated at the bar by the kitchen, giving us a chance to watch in awe as he and his team delivered a meal unlike any other. It started with a savory plantain doughnut, followed by sea urchin on crunchy cassava, duck, fish heads (they were amazing, really), a cold pork soup and a spiced cake I’m hoping will appear in my dreams.
This was the “strong personal imprint” that Pete Wells, The Times’s main restaurant critic, identified when he wrote about Paul in 2017.
Somehow, near a casino in Sydney, he wrote, there was a chef from the United States via Barbados, who “treats Australia as a Caribbean island that somehow got loose and wandered thousands of miles into the Pacific.”
In our case, Paul added a touch more detail and intrigue with each dish he sent our way. Near the end, when we got to his version of souse — a light pork stew from Barbados that he served cold and elegant — he was clearly in a groove.
[Hungry? Read Besha Rodell’s review of Momofuku Seiobo.]
We asked him about how or where he works out his concoctions. He turned us a sly smile.
“You’ve got to be connected,” he said.
“What do you mean?” we asked.
He pointed to what we were eating. It had only four ingredients, and because the pork came from oft-unused parts of the pig ( the feet, the face etc.) the flavors and texture changed with each batch. The timing of when to serve it changed too, he said, depending how the ingredients interacted.
“If you just sent someone the recipe, and they just did that, it wouldn’t work,” he said. “You’ve got to be connected.”
Aha — suddenly, I got it.
This was not the usual “connected” — it was the opposite of email, of social media, or of the “connected” sometimes used to refer to mafia figures or real-life power dynamics.
This was the connected of concentration — deep concentration and the maintenance of focus in service of creativity.
It was the same radioactive element described earlier in the night by Kylie Kwong, the owner and chef behind the restaurant Billy Kwong, who was interviewed by Sam at Carriageworks for Times subscribers.
She talked a lot with Sam about becoming “obsessed” — with native Australian ingredients for one — and about how she’s happiest when living in the moment.
For both Kylie and Paul, staying connected to what you make seemed to be a prerequisite for fulfillment. I tend to agree: Whether it’s food, fiction, art or journalism, there needs to be time and room for holding on, trying, reflecting, trying and trying again.
In today’s world, this is not an easy thing to pull off. Many of us need help.
When we looked at February’s most popular Times stories for Australian readers and readers around the world, these two came up:
• Do Not Disturb: How I Ditched My Phone and Unbroke My Brain
• Let Children Get Bored Again: Boredom teaches us that life isn’t a parade of amusements. More important, it spawns creativity and self-sufficiency.
What that tells me is that something deep in our collective soul — or at least the collective soul of Times readers — seems to know that we need more of what Paul’s talking about.
We need to be connected … the question is: How?
Next time Sam comes to Australia, I’ll do my best to keep probing. And eating. And learning.
Now here are a few stories to chew on, chosen by our bureau’s hungry up-and-comer, Isabella Kwai.
___
• A Rugby Revolution for Asia and the Pacific: An Australian billionaire is pushing a new rugby league aimed at revolutionizing the sport and enhancing its popularity in Asia and the Pacific.
• Leaving It All Behind for the Love of Nebbiolo: Luke Lambert in the Yarra Valley makes fine syrahs and chardonnays. But he wants to grow just one grape, make one wine and do it all himself.
• Attack on Government Minister Rattles New Zealand’s Friendly Politics: The attack on the minister for climate change stunned a country where only the prime minister has security and constituents don’t shy from approaching their leaders.
• In Australia, a 9-Hole Retreat That’s Cost-Free for War Veterans: Greg Carter really likes to golf. The Australian Vietnam War veteran enjoys it so much that one day, he put a hole in the yard of his sprawling 52-acre property in the Gippsland Lakes region.
• Congratulations, It’s Twins. The Doctor Is Perplexed: It seems like it should not be possible, but a recent case showed that sometimes a boy and a girl are born as semi-identical twins.
___
On Wednesday, George Pell, an Australian cardinal who was the Vatican’s chief financial officer, was sentenced to six years in prison for molesting two boys after Sunday Mass in 1996.
Many say the case has hardened distrust and anger among Catholics in Australia, pushing the country’s once robust church further into a precipitous decline: We investigate that trend.
Read about how other countries like the United States, Italy and the Philippines have punished abusive clergy. 
And how did we report the case while under a strict suppression order that kept it secret from the public?
In this Times Insider piece, Damien Cave and our reporter Livia Albeck-Ripka take us behind the scenes and into the courtroom. (And also about being willing going to jail.)
___
This week’s big international news story: All Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft are believed to have been pulled from use worldwide after an Ethiopian Airlines crash on Sunday that killed over 150 people raised questions about the plane’s safety. It was the second such crash in months.
The victims were from around the world, including professors from Kenya, aid workers from Ethiopia, a career ambassador from Nigeria and a fisheries consultant from Britain. Three generations from one Canadian family also perished in the crash.
We created a graphic of all flights that used the Boeing aircraft globally, including Fiji Airways and SilkAir, who operated it on routes to and from Australia.
Got questions about the aircraft? We answered some of them here.
___
Federal prosecutors in the United States have charged 50 people, including actresses and business leaders, in a college admissions scheme where wealthy parents paid bribes to secure spots for their children in big-name American universities like Yale, Stanford and U.S.C.
As someone who went to an American university for my undergraduate degree, the grueling application process is hard to forget: SAT prep, letters of recommendation, after-school extracurriculars, documents for financial packages and essays upon essays.
But this week’s news was a reminder for students at high schools across the country (and the world) that there is nothing equal about the process.
More reporting around the scandal:
• ‘What Does It Take?’: Admissions Scandal Is a Harsh Lesson in Racial Disparities
• Here’s How the F.B.I. Says Parents Cheated to Get Their Kids Into Elite Colleges
• Who’s Been Charged in the College Admissions Cheating Scandal? Here’s the Full List
• Fallout From College Admissions Scandal: Arrests, Damage Control and a Scramble for Answers
___
Don’t miss Somini Sengupta, our international climate change reporter, at the National Gallery of Victoria on Tuesday (19 March) for a discussion titled: Hot Cities on a Hotter Planet.
Details and tickets are here; New York Times readers can use code NGVNYTimes for a 10% discount.
And here’s a bonus and a challenge: Kylie Kwong’s duck recipe, which she revealed on Wednesday at our Times event after a question from a duck fan.
You can do it at home, she said. Just buy a whole duck. Marinate it in salt and Sichuan pepper water overnight. Let it sit until it reaches room temperature. Steam for about 90 minutes in a bamboo steamer. Lay it out, cut it in half at the breast and debone.
Then, chop the duck into slices, coat them in flour and shallow fry. If those instructions were too vague, here’s a more by-the-book recipe.
Let us know if you give it a go.
Gov. Bill Haslam of Tennessee granted clemency on Monday to Cyntoia Brown, commuting her life sentence for killing a man who had picked her up for sex when she was a teenage trafficking victim.
Ms. Brown, 30, will be released to supervised parole on Aug. 7, said Mr. Haslam, who will leave office later this month. She will have served 15 years in prison.
“Cyntoia Brown committed, by her own admission, a horrific crime at the age of 16,” Mr. Haslam, a Republican, said. “Yet, imposing a life sentence on a juvenile that would require her to serve at least 51 years before even being eligible for parole consideration is too harsh, especially in light of the extraordinary steps Ms. Brown has taken to rebuild her life.”
“Transformation should be accompanied by hope,” he said.
Ms. Brown’s story attracted widespread attention and she garnered support from celebrities, including Rihanna and Kim Kardashian West. Lawmakers and rights activists highlighted the years of abuse and forced prostitution that she endured in her youth and lobbied the governor to grant her clemency before his term was up.
Ms. Brown “lit up” with joy on Monday when she heard the news from Charles W. Bone, one of her lawyers, who blurted out immediately when he saw her: “You are getting out in August.”
In a statement, Ms. Brown thanked the governor “for your act of mercy in giving me a second chance. I will do everything I can to justify your faith in me.”
She also thanked Department of Corrections officials who helped her get an education and “saw something in me worth salvaging.”
[The Nashville city council had called for clemency, highlighting the “repeated sexual abuse” Ms. Brown endured.]
Mr. Bone said at a news conference that he was looking forward to the day he could see Ms. Brown “walk out of prison.”
“She deserves this, and deserves the full credit for it,” Mr. Bone said.
Activists and lawyers who had supported Ms. Brown said that her case reflected the need for criminal justice reform, particularly in cases of juvenile offenders who have been traumatized and can be rehabilitated.
One of her lawyers, J. Houston Gordon, said the case should be seen as a “clarion call” against what he described as draconian laws that put children in prison. “We need to see this as a national awakening,” he said.
Brittany Paschall, an organizer with Black Lives Matter Nashville, said in a statement Monday that Ms. Brown “should have never seen the inside of a cage.”
“Today is just a glimpse into a world in which all Black lives matter, a world in which Black women and girls are free,” Ms. Paschall said. “It is in this world that none of our people are criminalized, especially not for defending themselves against people threatening to harm them.”
Ms. Brown’s mother, who abused drugs and alcohol, placed her for adoption as a child, according to court documents. At 16, Ms. Brown ran away from her adoptive family and started to live in a motel with a pimp who raped her and forced her into prostitution.
In 2004, Johnny M. Allen, 43, a real estate broker, picked up Ms. Brown at a restaurant in Nashville and drove her to his home after she agreed to engage in sexual activity for $150, court documents say.
After they got into bed, Ms. Brown said she thought he was reaching for a gun to kill her. She later shot him in his sleep with a handgun from her purse, took money and two guns, and fled, documents say.
Ms. Brown, tried as an adult, was convicted by a Davidson County jury in 2006 of first-degree murder and aggravated robbery. She was sentenced to life in prison and would not have been eligible for parole until 2055.
Instead, she will be released exactly 15 years after her arrest. Ms. Brown will then be under supervised parole for 10 more years, until Aug. 7, 2029.
[Celebrities began rallying behind Ms. Brown’s cause in 2017.]
Lawyers and supporters at the news conference said Mr. Haslam’s decision was a courageous one that would also have its detractors.
His term is set to end Jan. 19, and the lobbying on Ms. Brown’s behalf sped up as his days left in office dwindled.
Last week lawmakers in the state urged him to grant Ms. Brown clemency, while a detective who had worked on the murder case published a letter opposing it.
Bishop Joseph W. Walker III of Mount Zion Baptist Church in Nashville said in an interview that he had had a “moral conversation” with the governor, and that he had counseled Ms. Brown while clemency was being considered. He said the governor had heard from both sides.
Ms. Brown’s release “represents a win, and restores hope for so many brown and black people,” he said.
While in prison, Ms. Brown earned her high school equivalency diploma and an associate degree, with a 4.0 G.P.A., from Lipscomb University’s LIFE program, which allows prisoners in the Tennessee Prison for Women to work toward a degree. She is continuing her education and is expected to earn a bachelor’s degree in May.
“Numerous Department of Correction employees and volunteers attest to her extraordinary personal transformation while incarcerated,” Mr. Haslam said, “which will allow her to be a positive influence on the community upon release.”
Ms. Brown said she wanted to “live the rest of my life helping others, especially young people.”
She added: “My hope is to help other young girls avoid ending up where I have been.”
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia — During the final debate before Saturday’s presidential election in Slovakia, the men were arguing, but the only woman onstage, Zuzana Caputova, looked on calmly.
Stefan Harabin, the former justice minister and a champion of ethnic nationalism, accused Muslim migrants of “killing and raping European women in Germany and France” and claimed his opponents wanted to destroy Slovak culture.
But Ms. Caputova did not respond to the outrage. In a political climate where stridency is often rewarded and crudeness frequently seen as a marker of authenticity, she has clung to the belief that decency is what voters want most. And it seems to be working.
In an interview the morning after the debate, she said: “Even though people might not agree with all my opinions, they can build a bridge of trust to me because I act with civility. Even if I fight, I don’t fight the person, but only the actions of the person.”
The latest polls show Ms. Caputova with a commanding lead over all her rivals: The field has been winnowed from about a dozen candidates to five, including an avowed neo-Nazi, Marian Kotleba. If Ms. Caputova becomes the first woman to lead this nation of 5.4 million people, she will have done so against all odds and conventional political wisdom.
“For Slovakia, this election will determine whether we follow the path toward some form of illiberal democracy,” said Aneta Vilagi, a political scientist at Comenius University in Bratislava. “Or it could be an exceptional moment both for this country and in the region, the first big victory for a candidate promoting liberal democracy in the last four years.”
Ms. Caputova, 45, a campaigning lawyer who had never run for office and was barely registering among voters before the first debates six weeks ago, has emerged from virtual obscurity to become the front-runner as the deputy of a new party, Progressive Slovakia.
Beyond Slovakia, Ms. Caputova’s unlikely rise and broad support in this deeply conservative country has given hope to opposition leaders in other countries, who sense that a backlash against populists may be brewing.
From Bucharest, the Romanian capital, to Bratislava, the Slovak capital, hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets in the past year to voice frustration with governments led by self-styled populists and ethnic nationalists. But channeling that energy into the voting booth has proved more challenging.
That may soon be tested in a number of countries. In Poland, where a fierce battle is raging over the country’s future with national elections scheduled in October, support in major cities for the governing Law and Justice party has plummeted, with voters choosing opposition politicians in most local elections last year.
That opposition has deepened since the mayor of Gdansk, Pawel Adamowicz, was fatally stabbed onstage during a charity event. He was widely viewed as a champion of a pluralistic Poland, and many saw the attack as evidence of the toxic political climate in the country.
In Slovakia, it was the murders of a young investigative reporter, Jan Kuciak, and his fiancée that galvanized the public. Mr. Kuciak was killed, the authorities said, because of his work investigating corruption that linked organized crime with political leaders and an effort to steal funds provided to the nation by the European Union.
On Thursday, the police charged a prominent businessman, Marian Kocner, with having ordered the killing.
The murders, and the government’s response, led to the largest protests in the country since the Velvet Revolution in 1989 in what was then Czechoslovakia. Juraj Seliga, 28, one of the organizers of the demonstrations, said it was a defining moment for the country.
“People realized they have the power; they can hold people accountable,” he said. “But they have to show up.”
Ms. Caputova said the events in Slovakia had inspired her to enter the race. “People are feeling frustrated and disappointed and are yearning for change. Some candidates have chosen to exploit this fear. But for me, using the emotions of hatred and fear is destructive.”
Ms. Vilagi said that even before the murders, many Slovaks had been nervous about the country’s direction. “People were asking, What is going on in Hungary? What is going on in Poland?” she said. “And it started to become more and more clear that the same thing could happen here. There was a real growing fear that our democracy could be at risk.”
Ms. Vilagi said that Robert Fico, the prime minister at the time and now the leader of the governing party, Direction — Social Democracy, or SMER, which has dominated politics for the past decade, was not a populist in an ideological sense. “But he used the tools of the populists,” she said.
Martin Slosiarik, one of Slovakia’s leading pollsters, said the message that Mr. Fico had spent years championing — condemning migrants and bureaucrats in Brussels while promoting a range of conspiracy theories — has had an effect.
“We see more and more people, frustrated by the system, turning to radical ideas,” Mr. Slosiarik said.
Mr. Harabin, the former justice minister, for instance, has condemned NATO, relishes bashing Brussels and has made gay men and lesbians frequent targets of scorn.
In Slovakia, as more evidence surfaced that populist rhetoric may have been a cover for corruption, public anger swelled. After Mr. Kuciak was killed and anger exploded into the streets, Mr. Fico was forced to step down as prime minister, and support for SMER collapsed.
Mr. Slosiarik said that he had never witnessed such a drastic drop in such a short time.
In the last poll before Election Day — taken on March 1 — the governing party’s candidate, Maros Sefcovic, finished second but trailed Ms. Caputova by more than 30 points: 16.7 percent to 52.9 percent. Mr. Harabin polled in third place, with just over 11 percent.
Under the Slovak system, outright victory is difficult in the first round of voting, and Ms. Caputova is expected to face either Mr. Sefcovic or Mr. Harabin in a runoff in two weeks. If it is Mr. Harabin, observers expect a brutal battle.
In an earlier debate, Mr. Harabin condemned Ms. Caputova as a representative of “ultraliberalism, L.G.B.T., gender ideology” who would “destroy families” and is a “lover of migration” who “would accept foreign armies in Slovakia.”
“I will never allow that as president,” he thundered.
Ms. Caputova responded with restraint, refusing to attack him personally. “We are facing a crisis in trust,” she said. As faith in politicians and the institutions of the state continues to be eroded, she said, “populists and extremists are gaining ground.”
The best tool to restore trust, Ms. Caputova said, was authenticity — even if it meant risking votes.
She leads in the polls despite not shying away from positions long considered poisonous, including support for gay rights. For 14 years, she had waged an often-lonely battle against the expansion of a toxic landfill in Pezinok, a small town outside Bratislava. Eventually, she prevailed and is now sometimes referred to as the Erin Brockovich of Slovakia.
But she has also been the subject of strong-arm tactics and often-vile abuse, with threats so serious that she has had to hire security.
Ms. Caputova recalled having coffee with Mr. Kocner, the businessman charged with ordering the murder of the Slovak journalist and whose interests were tied up in one of her environmental cases a few years ago.
“He asked me if I was afraid of him,” she recalled. “I was in fighting mode then. So I said no. But it was one of the quickest cups of coffee I have ever had,” she said, laughing.
“He then asked me under what conditions I would stop,” she added. “I said there was no way I would stop. It was just too important.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Nearly two-thirds of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 planes have been grounded since an Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed on Sunday, killing 157 people. On Tuesday, European regulators banned the jets, following similar moves elsewhere. 
The cause of the crash is unclear, but the groundings were driven in part by regulators’ concerns about similarities to a deadly accident in October involving a 737 Max 8.
The U.S. continues to hold out. Boeing’s chief executive made a personal appeal to President Trump, assuring him of the model’s safety. The Federal Aviation Administration said that the planes could keep flying as it continued its review.
Catch up: At least two pilots in the U.S. had filed incident reports that raised concerns about safety and training on the Max 8 jets. Here’s the latest.
Your questions: A former air safety investigator answers. 
Fifty people were accused in a scheme to buy spots at Stanford, Yale and other competitive universities in what a U.S. attorney called the “largest college admissions scam ever prosecuted by the Department of Justice.”
Those charged include Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, as well as top college athletic coaches who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit students.
Why this matters: The scheme, unveiled by federal prosecutors on Tuesday, showed the lengths that some parents will go to and underscored how cutthroat college admissions have become. Here are excerpts from the indictment. 
The details: The actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin were among those charged, as was Ms. Loughlin’s husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli. See the full list.
Parliament overwhelmingly rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawing from the European Union, leaving Britain seemingly rudderless just over two weeks before its scheduled departure from the bloc.
The outcome of the vote was expected, but it nonetheless deepened the crisis facing Mrs. May. In acknowledging her latest defeat, she angrily told lawmakers they would now need to make hard choices.
What’s next: Parliament is set to vote today on the possibility of leaving without a deal, a potentially chaotic outcome that lawmakers rejected in a nonbinding motion in January. A vote is also scheduled this week over whether to request an extension for the withdrawal, something many analysts say is now inevitable.
Perspective: Mrs. May has no power, no way forward and nothing left to lose, a British journalist writes. “She may as well burn it all down and try to start afresh.” 
Health care for life is one of the most celebrated benefits of military service, but entrenched sexism and harassment at veterans hospitals is driving many away.
The number of women using veterans health services has tripled since 2000 — to about 500,000, from 159,810 — but they make up only 8 percent of all users of V.A. health care. The Department of Veterans Affairs has made progress in accommodating the growing number, but sexual harassment persists, veterans and lawmakers say.
Voices: “You felt like you were a piece of meat,” a retired Army sergeant said. “Standing in line at the registration desk, I was getting comments from the male patients behind me, looking me up and down.”
Ever since Freddie Gray died after suffering injuries in police custody in 2015, violent crime in Baltimore has surged. In 2017, the city recorded 342 murders, a per-capita rate far higher than any other urban area of 500,000 or more residents.
In a collaboration with The Times Magazine, a reporter for ProPublica who lives in Baltimore examined the city’s recent troubles, which he sees as being caused by “nothing less than a failure of order and governance the likes of which few American cities have seen in years.”
Paul Manafort sentencing: The total prison sentence for President Trump’s former campaign manager is now seven and a half years, after a second judge ruled today in one of the special counsel’s highest-profile cases.
California capital punishment: Gov. Gavin Newsom is set to announce a moratorium on executions in the state today, granting a temporary reprieve for 737 inmates on the largest death row in the Western Hemisphere.
Catholic abuse scandal: Cardinal George Pell of Australia was sentenced today to six years in prison for molesting two boys in 1996. And a former New Jersey priest who was accused of sexual abuse was found fatally shot in his home, in what the police are treating as a homicide.
Immigration centers closed: The Trump administration is preparing to cut back on support services for those applying overseas to move to the U.S.
Snapshot: Above, preparations on Tuesday for an elephant race, part of a festival in Vietnam’s central highlands. Locals say the event is a celebration of the animals, but conservation groups are calling for a ban, saying it is cruel and outdated.
A big Jets deal: Le’Veon Bell, the superstar running back who sat out the last N.F.L. season in a salary dispute with the Pittsburgh Steelers, has agreed to join the New York Jets.
Surprising N.F.L. trade: The New York Giants have sent Odell Beckham Jr., their most popular player and the highest-paid wide receiver in the league, to the Cleveland Browns.
Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert reacted to the news of the college admissions scandal: “You know how the conspiracy theorists say, ‘Everything is rigged for the wealthy and famous’? Well, as a wealthy and famous person, let me just respond by saying: You’re absolutely right.” 
What we’re listening to: This Pineapple Street podcast. Our Magazine writer Jenna Wortham says Julie Yip-Williams, who died last year after being diagnosed with colon cancer, created “a wonderful and at times devastating meditation on death and what happens to those we leave behind.”
Cook: With a little forethought, marinated short ribs can be part of a balanced weeknight rice bowl.
Listen: T.S. Eliot had a truly remarkable speaking voice. Now you can listen to previously unheard recordings of him discussing his poetry in 1950.
Watch: We have reached Season 3 in our grand rewatch of “Game of Thrones.” Sign up to get our guides.
Look: Nike has revealed new uniforms for 14 of 24 teams competing in the Women’s World Cup. Each was made specifically for female athletes. 
Smarter Living: In the past, when we encountered bacterial threats, our immune systems dealt with them and adapted. But our bodies are becoming unable to do this, partly as a result of overprescribed antibiotics, which goes to show what scientists are finding: You’re not safer when you try to eliminate every risk from your environment.
It’s possible to revamp your basketball game at nearly any age. Here’s how a middle-aged father of three sons did it.
The otherwise invisible special counsel investigation takes regular public shape inside the E. Barrett Prettyman Courthouse in Washington, where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, appeared at his final sentencing hearing today.
It is the same building where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has used a grand jury to return indictments.
Your Back Story writer has visited the building often during months of covering hearings involving Mueller targets, including Mr. Manafort, Roger Stone and Michael Flynn.
A little over half a mile from F.B.I. headquarters, the courthouse has a bland limestone exterior, tall windows, long hallways and artificial lighting, which combine to create a sterile aura of law and order. Outside, protesters and camera crews have jostled as Trump associates enter and exit through revolving doors familiar to cable news junkies.
To the Editor:
Re “They Joined ISIS. Bring Them Home” (Op-Ed, March 5):
Bryant Neal Viñas, in describing his rehabilitation, makes fighting for ISIS against American forces sound like some kind of civil offense. In truth it is closer to treason. He puts his descriptions of fighters like himself in quotes (“terrorists”) as if they were really something else. 
If Mr. Viñas does not have “blood on [his] hands,” has accepted his guilt and has found a “life after terrorism” in the United States, then good for him. I am not, however, glad that he is home.
Richard W. PoetonBennington, Vt.
To the Editor:
As a counterterrorism analyst at the New York Police Department, I spent my days investigating individuals who were considering acts of terrorism. Having worked to enforce our laws, I, like Bryant Neal Viñas, support letting “the American legal system do its work.” Just as our perceptions of terrorists tend to lack nuance, so do our perceptions of terrorist acts. Not all terrorists are Osama bin Laden, and not all actions are beheadings.
Once someone has served time, we should do what we can to help him or her reintegrate into society. We should judge people on their actions, but allow for them to change.
Steve HeitkampLondon
To the Editor:
Bryant Neal Viñas writes that the United States should take back “those Western foreign fighters who do not have ‘blood on their hands’ — didn’t kill any coalition forces overseas — and are willing to admit they made mistakes.” This definition of ISIS’s crimes erases women’s participation in this conflict as both victims and victimizers. 
By focusing on combat with coalition forces, Mr. Viñas conveniently ignores the kidnapping, rape, torture and enslavement of Iraqi and Syrian women. He also doesn’t acknowledge that both willingly and by force, thousands of women mobilized for ISIS. 
Most of these women will not meet the international legal threshold of “foreign fighter,” but they were essential to ISIS’s ideological and operational missions. The women of ISIS served as wives and mothers, yes, but also as propagandists, members of a brutal morality police, slave owners and, toward the end, even combatants. 
Mr. Viñas may have atoned for his crimes, but he should not minimize the crimes of others, especially women.
Jessica Trisko DardenWashingtonThe writer, co-author of “Insurgent Women: Female Combatants in Civil Wars,” is an assistant professor at American University’s School of International Service and a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
To the Editor:
The debate over whether Western countries should allow foreign fighters and the children and wives of ISIS combatants to return to their homelands acknowledges the threat they could pose to Western citizens upon return. But we should not ignore the precedent that letting them return sets for those considering joining such groups.
Having the option to leave a terrorist organization and go home expedites the decision to go in the first place. The prospect of never again being able to return to one’s family or homeland, and having to spend the remainder of one’s life in the deserts of Syria, might be the final straw preventing potential recruits from making that fateful decision.
Alexa SantryWashington
Michael Jackson’s damaged reputation began to recover the day he died.
The lurid accusations of child molestation that had dogged him for years fell to the background as fans around the world celebrated the entertainer who had gone from pop prodigy to global superstar over a four-decade career. Flash mobs from Stockholm to the Philippines re-enacted his video scenes, and his music sales again broke chart records.
Now, nearly 10 years after his death, the dark side of Mr. Jackson’s legend has returned through a documentary that rocked the Sundance Film Festival and is being championed by Oprah Winfrey. In addition to delivering a hit to his mended reputation, the film poses a significant risk to the Jackson estate, which has engineered a thriving posthumous career, including a Broadway-bound jukebox musical.
The four-hour documentary, “Leaving Neverland,” to be broadcast on HBO in two parts on Sunday and Monday, focuses on the wrenching testimony of two men, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, who say Mr. Jackson abused them for years, starting when they were young boys. While the accusations are not new, their revival in the #MeToo era, with its momentum of accountability for figures like R. Kelly, Harvey Weinstein and Bill Cosby, gives them new meaning.
“There has always been this shadow or cloud about Michael,” said Charles Koppelman, a longtime music executive who once served as a financial adviser to Mr. Jackson. “With this documentary about to be shown to millions and millions of people, and all the notoriety that it’s now getting, I think it will have a detrimental effect to the legacy and the estate.”
The estate has already begun its war on “Leaving Neverland.” It issued a series of fiery statements around the time of the film’s Sundance debut in January and has filed a petition in Los Angeles County Superior Court for arbitration, seeking $100 million in damages from HBO. In making its case, the estate — whose beneficiaries are Mr. Jackson’s mother and three children, as well as children’s charities — portrays Mr. Robson and Mr. Safechuck as “serial perjurers” for whom HBO has become “just another tool in their litigation playbook.”
The debate over the film is likely to be intense in black communities, where figures like Mr. Jackson and Mr. Kelly have their strongest defenders, said Yaba Blay, a professor at North Carolina Central University whose specialty is black racial and cultural identities.
“If you think R. Kelly tore black America apart, this is going to destroy us,” Dr. Blay said.
On Monday night, after the conclusion of “Leaving Neverland,” HBO and the Oprah Winfrey Network plan to broadcast Ms. Winfrey’s interview with Mr. Robson, Mr. Safechuck and the film’s director, Dan Reed.
In “Leaving Neverland,” Mr. Robson, 36, and Mr. Safechuck, 41, tell parallel stories of being drawn into Mr. Jackson’s inner circle as boys. Mr. Robson met Mr. Jackson on tour in Australia at age 5 and moved to the United States two years later to be near his idol. Mr. Safechuck was 8 when he was cast in a Pepsi commercial and met Mr. Jackson.
Both men say Mr. Jackson abused them while charming their families at his 2,600-acre Neverland compound in Los Olivos, Calif. He also warned them to keep their sexual relationship secret, the men say.
“He told me if they ever found out what we were doing,” Mr. Robson says in the film, “he and I would go to jail for the rest of our lives.”
Complicating the men’s accounts are their histories as Mr. Jackson’s defenders. Both gave sworn testimony at different times denying that any abuse had taken place, and Mr. Robson was the first witness called by Mr. Jackson’s defense team at his 2005 criminal trial on molestation charges involving another boy. Members of the men’s families say in the film that they knew nothing of the alleged abuse at the time, nor suspected any. No corroborating testimony or evidence for their accounts is presented.
In the film, the men say the change of heart had to do with their becoming fathers. After Mr. Jackson died at 50 on June 25, 2009, they filed separate lawsuits against the estate, making their accusations of abuse public for the first time. Those cases were thrown out for being filed too late, but remain under appeal.
The estate has seized on the men’s past defense of Mr. Jackson to attack their credibility. It also accuses the director, Mr. Reed, whose previous documentaries include “Three Days of Terror: The Charlie Hebdo Attacks” and “The Paedophile Hunter,” of flouting standard journalistic practice by failing to contact the estate for a response.
“It is a disgrace,” Howard Weitzman, the estate’s lawyer, wrote in a 10-page public letter to HBO last month.
In an interview, Mr. Reed noted that “Leaving Neverland” includes footage of blanket denials from Mr. Jackson and his lawyers, and he argued that the opinions of the estate and Jackson family members are irrelevant.
“I do not think that interviewing a member of the Jackson family saying what a nice guy Michael was has any bearing on the credibility of someone who claims that Michael Jackson abused him behind a locked door,” Mr. Reed said.
Born in Gary, Ind., Mr. Jackson became famous as the preternaturally talented lead singer of the Jackson 5, whose first four singles on the Motown record label — “I Want You Back,” “ABC,” “The Love You Save” and “I’ll Be There” — went to No. 1 in 1970. Joe Jackson, the boys’ domineering father, controlled the group, and it became part of Michael’s mythos that he never had a normal childhood.
With later solo albums like “Off the Wall” and “Thriller,” both produced with Quincy Jones, Mr. Jackson reached superstardom, breaking sales records around the world as the tabloids chronicled his offstage life.
In 1993, he was accused of child molestation for the first time. Early the next year, he paid a reported $23 million to settle a civil case. During that time, prosecutors in Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, Calif., built a criminal case against Mr. Jackson, only to drop it when the main accuser — the boy from the civil case — decided against cooperating.
Aside from a No. 1 single in 1995, “You Are Not Alone” — written by Mr. Kelly — Mr. Jackson never achieved the level of success he had attained earlier in his career. Criminal charges were brought against him in 2003, when he was accused of using alcohol and pornography to seduce and molest a boy. In 2005, a jury acquitted Mr. Jackson, but his reputation seemed beyond repair.
In the trial’s wake, he left Neverland for Bahrain, where he was spotted in shopping malls wearing black robes and veils. After his return to the United States, mired in debt, he made plans for a comeback tour, only to die in a rented mansion in Los Angeles, having succumbed to a combination of drugs provided to him by his personal physician, who was later found guilty of involuntary manslaughter.
His estate, led by John G. Branca, Mr. Jackson’s longtime lawyer and deal maker, and John McClain, a music executive, struck an array of lucrative deals, including film and record contracts. It also approved two Jackson-related shows by the dance-theater troupe Cirque du Soleil. One of those, “Michael Jackson: One,” has been a Las Vegas staple since 2013.
Since 2009, the estate has brought in more than $2 billion, according to Billboard. Half of that came from the sale of its stakes in major song catalogs: Sony/ATV, which contained more than 200 songs written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and EMI, whose vast holdings include most Motown hits.
A test of Mr. Jackson’s market appeal may be “Don’t Stop ’Til You Get Enough,” the musical produced by the estate and Columbia Live Stage, a division of Sony Pictures. Planned for a 2020 Broadway premiere, it has a highbrow creative team: Lynn Nottage, a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, is writing the book, and Christopher Wheeldon, a ballet luminary, is the choreographer.
Since “Leaving Neverland” made its debut at Sundance, the fate of the musical has caused talk in theater circles. A Chicago tryout run was canceled; producers blamed scheduling conflicts after an actors’ strike. A spokesman for the show said the production remained on schedule.
The larger question, said Stacy Wolf, a Princeton theater professor, is whether Ms. Nottage, who is known for her politically charged work, has the freedom to stray from a sanitized account of Mr. Jackson’s life story. The show, which will incorporate Mr. Jackson’s songs, was announced as being based on the period leading up to his “Dangerous” tour of 1992 and 1993 — a tour cut short when allegations of abuse surfaced.
“The question is, can she figure out, as a dramatist, how to tell the story she wants to tell, without compromising her politics, and dealing with this very difficult estate?” Ms. Wolf said.
Through the show’s spokesman, the producers and Ms. Nottage declined to comment.
In its petition for arbitration, the Jackson estate accused HBO of being in breach of a 1992 agreement it had made with the singer to broadcast a concert from Bucharest, Romania. The estate said the contract had contained a nondisparagement clause that HBO was violating with “Leaving Neverland.”
The filing — which begins, “Michael Jackson is innocent. Period.” — also targets the credibility of Mr. Robson and Mr. Safechuck. Both men, the filing says, are “pursuing claims against the Jackson estate for hundreds of millions of dollars,” through appeals of their suit. (In response, HBO has said it plans to broadcast “Leaving Neverland” as announced, “despite the desperate lengths taken to undermine the film.”)
In the #MeToo era, aggressive statements against accusers may not be effective, said Matthew Hiltzik, whose firm, Hiltzik Strategies, handles crisis management for celebrities and corporations.
“It’s understandable that an estate would want to fight back in any way possible because of the unique challenges of trying to refute claims against someone who has been dead for 10 years,” Mr. Hiltzik said. “But it may backfire based on the contents of the documentary and the current climate.”
PARK CITY, Utah — Amid breathless reports of protests, disruptions and personal threats, news outlets swarmed to the Sundance Film Festival premiere of “Leaving Neverland,” a new documentary mini-series detailing accusations of sexual abuse against the pop star Michael Jackson. But the protesters outside the Egyptian Theater found themselves vastly outnumbered by reporters, photographers and camera crews, as teams from Variety, “Extra,” and, yes, The Times waited patiently for their turns to interview the poster-carrying Michael Jackson defenders. All two of them.
Brenda Jenkyns and Catherine Van Tighem said they drove 13 hours from Alberta, Canada, to protest the debut of the docu-series, which HBO will broadcast this spring. Though three more protesters showed up after the screening, the two friends said they felt compelled to speak out. “I’ve never actually heard of Sundance before that,” Jenkyns said. “I just know about Michael Jackson, and we also know about the two people who are featured in this film. So we knew that it would be not true, basically.”
Van Tighem added that the film was “not a voice for victims,” saying, “There’s another side to the story. The information is there for people, if they want to take the time to look at it.” She carried a cardboard poster featuring a photo of Jackson, as well as copies of a pamphlet titled “Protect Michael,” with a storybook-style illustration of the pop singer leading a group of children through a garden of flowers.
“Leaving Neverland,” directed by Dan Reed, paints quite a different picture of Jackson’s interactions with young people. In two parts running nearly four hours, it details the singer’s history with Wade Robson and James Safechuck, who both spent time with Jackson in the late 1980s, at the height of his post-“Thriller” fame.
Under 10 at the time they began their “friendships” with the pop star, they say that they were showered with gifts, trips, and backstage passes; slowly isolated from their families; and “groomed” for sexual abuse that lasted several years. The now-adult Robson and Safechuck describe their sexual interactions with Jackson in graphic detail — far more explicit than the euphemisms typical of earlier news reports and documentary accounts.
In 2003, Jackson was indicted on child molestation charges when a young cancer patient accused the singer of groping him at the Neverland estate in California. Jackson was acquitted of all charges. He died six years later at the age of 50.
Jackson supporters like Jenkyns and Van Tighem question the credibility of the documentary’s accounts, noting that the men had previously defended Jackson from accusations by other young men, and that their subsequent efforts to sue Jackson’s companies were dismissed by courts. “I don’t feel any requirement to see it, I don’t feel any desire to see it or to benefit anybody who’s trying to make money,” Jenkyns said of the documentary. “ I don’t have respect for people who do things without a pure heart.”
And that, to her, includes Robson and Safechuck: “I feel it’s taking advantage of real victims of child abuse, because it does not respect them, who should be believed, when someone like this who shouldn’t be believed is representing them.”
At the Q&A after the screening, Robson said with a hint of sadness that he understood it was hard for them to believe “because in a way, not that long ago, I was in the same position they are. Even though it happened to me, I still couldn’t believe it. I still couldn’t believe that what Michael did was a bad thing.”
He added, “We can only accept and understand something when we’re ready, and maybe we’ll never be ready, and maybe we will. But that’s their journey.”
The women said they were not disappointed by the meager turnout for the protest. “I just knew in my heart that I had to be here and speak out,” Van Tighem said, adding, “A friend came to join me; there’s only two of us that I know that are here today. If there’s others that are coming, that’s great, but there’s no organized protest.”
The news cameras were long gone when the other protesters showed up. “I’ve never been to a protest, so I didn’t have any idea what to expect at all,” Jenkyns said. “I believe it was made to sound bigger than it was, with huge police and angry fans. So we wanted to be here to show that a real Michael Jackson fan is about love and not about fighting.”
Here’s some news you oughta know: “Jagged Little Pill” is coming to Broadway.
Producers said on Monday that the musical, which uses the song catalog of Alanis Morissette to confront such contemporary issues as rape culture and addiction, will open next fall. They did not specify a theater or a date.
“Jagged Little Pill” has had one previous production, a sold-out 10-week run last year at the nonprofit American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass.
Reviewing the show for The New York Times, the critic Jesse Green said it “takes on the good work we are always asking new musicals to do: the work of singing about real things,” but added, “if only it didn’t sing about all of them all at once.” In the Boston Globe, Christopher Muther expressed similar misgivings about the catalog of social issues crammed into the plot, but called it “wildly entertaining” and “wickedly funny in just the right places.”
The musical features songs written by Ms. Morissette and Glen Ballard, many of them from the 1995 album that gives the show its title, and a book by Diablo Cody, the Oscar-winning screenwriter for “Juno.” Diane Paulus, who is the artistic director of the A.R.T. and a Tony winner for “Pippin,” is the director.
The cast in Cambridge was led by Elizabeth Stanley and featured a showstopping Lauren Patten in a supporting role; the cast for Broadway has not yet been named.
The musical, with Vivek J. Tiwary, Arvind Ethan David and Eva Price as lead producers, is expected to be capitalized for up to $14 million, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The producers said that they expect the final cost to be slightly lower.
In an interview, the producers said the show is being revised somewhat after its last production. “We were quite happy with the work we did on our original musical, but you can always keep improving, and the changes we have made are many, many little ones that add up to a more streamlined, layered, and deeper show,” Ms. Price said. “The world has continued to change, and that has affected the writing and the direction.”
The producers have been working on the show for nearly nine years, largely because of the complexity of hammering out rights agreements for the songs. “We wanted to produce something that was not just another Broadway musical, but was true to the legacy of the record,” Mr. Tiwary said. “We want to be an entertaining musical with messages.”
A former police officer in Bradenton, Fla., spent years abusing his access to sensitive information to target women for dates, according to an investigation by his former department, which interviewed nearly 150 women.
The interviews revealed a pattern of “negative and inappropriate” behavior by the former officer, Leonel Marines, according to Melanie Bevan, chief of the Bradenton Police Department. An audit of Mr. Marines’s use of driver’s license and vehicle records showed a clear focus on searches for women over men.
“He was using it in a variety of ways, via social media, cold telephone calls, visits to their home under the guise of being there for police business, you name it, to try and get dates with these women,” Chief Bevan said at a news conference late last week.
Mr. Marines was “very persistent and successful at times,” she said, adding that his activity may have started as early as 2012.
The investigation, now complete, found that Mr. Marines had committed several violations “involving gross misconduct,” broken department rules on records security and had sex on duty. While the probe is over, an F.B.I. investigation remains “very active and open,” Chief Bevan said.
When the internal investigation began last year, Mr. Marines, a former sergeant who had been with the department for about 12 years, was assigned to desk duty. As it progressed, he was placed on administrative leave without pay and stripped of his badge, gun and uniform.
He resigned in late October, but had he remained, he would have been fired, Chief Bevan said.
Both the F.B.I. and the Bradenton Police Department declined to comment further. Calls to telephone numbers associated with Mr. Marines went unanswered.
The investigation was set in motion by an interaction Mr. Marines had with a woman and her parents in June.
After a brief encounter with Mr. Marines in a parking lot, the woman had grown concerned that he was following her as she drove to her parents’ house, according to Chief Bevan, who did not name the woman. Though he turned away before the woman arrived at the house, Mr. Marines soon showed up at the residence.
There, he explained to the parents that he wanted to speak with their daughter about a domestic matter. Her parents declined, questioned his motives and asked for his name and that of his supervisor. Mr. Marines left without answering, but the parents called the department to report the encounter.
When asked about it, Mr. Marines said that he had followed the woman because one of her headlights was out and he was worried that she was impaired.
Because of the diverging accounts, Chief Bevan ordered the investigation, which, at its height, involved five people working full time, spending thousands of hours mining data and interviewing women.
At the news conference on Thursday, Chief Bevan said that Mr. Marines had “betrayed the trust of this department and the citizens of Bradenton.”
“This is truly a disturbing situation for me as chief,” she later added.
Local news reports in recent years identified Mr. Marines as a detective who served as a public point of contact for serious criminal investigations into fraud, child molestation, sexual assault and shootings.
The findings of the investigation have been shared with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, Chief Bevan said, and the Bradenton Police Department has improved its database auditing practices as a result.
TOKYO — Catholic bishops in Japan plan to conduct a nationwide survey on sexual abuse of children by members of the clergy, church officials said Monday.
Archbishop Mitsuaki Takami of Nagasaki, the leader of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Japan, shared the plan on Sunday during a gathering in Tokyo where a man spoke of being abused as a young boy at the hands of a German priest.
“Japan’s Catholic Church is small, and we are not sure what we can do” about child sexual abuse, Archbishop Takami said by telephone on Monday. “But we think we have to pay attention to this issue.”
According to The Mainichi Shimbun, a Japanese newspaper, bishops from around the country agreed last week to carry out the survey in all 16 dioceses. The survey method has not yet been decided.
The Roman Catholic Church faces accusations around the world of covering up child sexual abuse.
In December, Cardinal George Pell of Australia became the highest-ranking church leader to be found guilty of sexual abuse, after he was convicted of molesting two boys in the 1990s.
Abuse by church officials has also been reported in India, the Philippines and elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific, a region the church considers important for its continued growth.
In Japan, the bishops’ conference said in 2002 that it had found incidents of child abuse in its ranks. It issued behavioral guidelines for bishops the following year, and has updated them several times since.
“Concerning this problem we must confess that we have not adequately fulfilled our responsibility,” the conference said in a statement in 2002. “To those who have been harmed we promise now that we bishops will respond to the problem in all sincerity, and that any priests or religious who are guilty will be dealt with severely.”
Nationwide questionnaires of bishops, conducted in 2002 and 2012, found that at least five “damage reports” had been filed over church sexual abuse, The Mainichi Shimbun reported on Monday. The newspaper quoted Archbishop Takami as saying in an interview that the church would consider conducting third-party investigations into child sexual abuse cases “as necessary.”
In February, the newspaper said, Archbishop Takami was among the bishops who traveled to the Vatican for a four-day meeting of Pope Francis and other church leaders to discuss child sexual abuse. Francis is planning to visit Japan in November, which would make him the first pontiff to do so in nearly 40 years.
Archbishop Takami said on Monday that he had been invited to the recent gathering in Tokyo by Katsumi Takenaka. The Mainichi Shimbun said Mr. Takenaka, 62, was a public servant who had identified himself as a victim of sexual abuse.
At the gathering, Mr. Takenaka said that he had been sexually abused as a fourth-grade elementary student by a German priest at a foster care facility in suburban Tokyo.
“We are sorry we’ve not been able to do enough and caused you to suffer,” Archbishop Takami told Mr. Takenaka as they shook hands, according to the newspaper.
On Monday, Archbishop Takami said by telephone that the church should listen to victims’ voices and “think what we can do” to prevent other children from suffering.
“It took decades for him to be able to speak out,” he said of Mr. Takenaka. “It must have been very difficult.”
Woody Allen sued Amazon in federal court on Thursday, seeking at least $68 million and saying that the company’s streaming service had improperly backed out of a four-movie deal because of a renewed focus on allegations of sexual abuse on Allen’s part.
The filing, in Federal District Court in Manhattan, said that Amazon had justified ending the deal by “referencing a 25-year old, baseless allegation against Mr. Allen,” presumably the accusation that he had molested his daughter, Dylan Farrow, in 1992, when she was 7. He has denied the allegations and has not been charged with any crime.
“That allegation was already well known to Amazon (and the public) before Amazon entered into four separate deals with Mr. Allen,” the lawsuit said. “And, in any event, it does not provide a basis for Amazon to terminate the contract. There simply was no legitimate ground for Amazon to renege on its promises.”
[Read a timeline of the accusations involving Woody Allen and his family.]
Amazon did not respond to a request for comment, nor did a representative for Allen.
The accusations against him date back to the 1990s, when they were at the center of a bitter child custody battle between Allen and his former partner, Mia Farrow. Allen’s affair with Soon-Yi Previn, who had been adopted by Farrow and would later marry Allen, also figured in the dispute, which split the family. In recent years, the journalist Ronan Farrow, a son of Mia Farrow and Allen, has come out in support of his mother and sister Dylan. Moses Farrow, a brother of Ronan, has sided with Allen.
As the #MeToo movement began placing a spotlight on the behavior of powerful men in Hollywood, the longstanding accusations received new life.
In December 2017, Dylan Farrow wrote an op-ed piece for The Los Angeles Times titled “Why has the #MeToo revolution spared Woody Allen?” Several Hollywood figures, including Greta Gerwig, Colin Firth and Peter Sarsgaard, have said they would not do another film with Allen.
Amazon already had a relationship with Allen dating back to 2016, when it distributed his film “Café Society,” starring Jesse Eisenberg and Kristen Stewart, followed by “Wonder Wheel,” featuring Justin Timberlake, the next year. According to the lawsuit, in August 2017, Amazon reached a deal with Allen’s production company to finance and distribute at least four films, including “A Rainy Day in New York,” which Allen completed. One of the movie’s stars, Timothée Chalamet, donated his salary from the film to charity.
The deal called for Allen’s company to be paid at least $68 million. Four months after the agreement was signed, the lawsuit said, Amazon executives met with Allen’s representatives to discuss delaying the release of “A Rainy Day in New York” to 2019, in part because of “negative publicity and reputational harm” Amazon was facing because of the studio’s past association with Harvey Weinstein. In the meantime, Allen began work on the other three films agreed to in the deal, the suit said.
Last June, according to the court documents, Ajay Patel, an associate general counsel for Amazon Studios, sent an email to representatives of Allen, saying that the production deal was being terminated. Allen’s team protested, asking for a reason.
Amazon, according to the suit, said that the deal had become “impracticable” because of “supervening events, including renewed allegations against Mr. Allen, his own controversial comments, and the increasing refusal of top talent to work with or be associated with him in any way, all of which have frustrated the purpose of the agreement.”
Allen’s projects are among several tied to high-profile men that have been canceled or pulled back because of allegations of sexual wrongdoing. The Orchard, an independent distribution company, shelved Louis C.K.’s film, “I Love You, Daddy,” after the comedian admitted to sexual misconduct with multiple colleagues. Following accusations of sexual assault against Kevin Spacey, his scenes in “All The Money in The World” were erased and reshot with Christopher Plummer.
CANBERRA, Australia — Dozens of high-profile Australian journalists and major media organizations were represented by lawyers in a court on Monday on charges relating to breaches of a gag order on reporting about Cardinal George Pell's convictions for sexually molesting two choirboys.
Reporting in any format accessible from Australia about the former Vatican economy chief's convictions in a Melbourne court in December was banned by a judge's suppression order that was not lifted until February.
Such suppression orders are common in the Australian and British judicial systems, and breaches can result in jail terms. But the enormous international interest in a criminal trial with global ramifications has highlighted the difficulty in enforcing such orders in the digital world.
Lawyers representing 23 journalists, producers and broadcasters as well as 13 media organizations that employ them appeared in the Victoria state Supreme Court for the first time on charges including breaching the suppression order and sub judice contempt, which is the publishing of material that could interfere with the administration of justice. Some are also charged with scandalizing the court by undermining public confidence in the judiciary as well as aiding and abetting foreign media outlets in breaching the suppression order.
Media lawyer Matthew Collins told the court that convictions could have a chilling effect on open justice in Australia. He described the prosecutions as unprecedented under Australian law.
"This is as serious as it gets in terms of convictions, fines and jail time," Collins said.
Justice John Dixon urged lawyers to consider whether all 36 people and companies would face a single trial or whether there should be 36 trials.
He ordered prosecutors to file detailed statements of claim against all those charged by May 20 and defense lawyers to file responses by June 21.
The parties must return to court for the next preliminary hearing on June 26.
Media organizations are standing by their reporting, including Australia's largest newspaper publisher, News Corp., which said in a statement that it would "vigorously defend all charges and resolutely stand by our editors and journalists."
Court documents list 32 overseas-based media organizations and websites that breached the suppression order, but none has been charged. The U.S. Constitution's First Amendment would prevent such censorship in the United States, so attempting to extradite an American for breaching an Australian suppression order would be futile.
As soon as Pell was convicted on Dec. 11 of oral rape and indecent acts involving two 13-year-old boys while he was archbishop of Melbourne in the 1990s, news began to spread around the world on social media.
Collins told the court that Australian media did not name Pell or say what he had been convicted of.
Pell was described as an "Australian with a worldwide reputation convicted of an awful crime," ''a high-profile Australian known across the world ... convicted of a serious crime," ''a high profile person found guilty of a terrible crime," ''a very high profile figure convicted ... of a serious crime" and an "internationally prominent person found guilty of appalling crimes," court documents show.
Australia's largest-circulation newspaper, Melbourne's Herald Sun, owned by News Corp., had published on its front page headlines "CENSORED — the world is reading a very important story that is relevant to Victorians," referring to residents of Victoria state.
"The Herald Sun is prevented from publishing details of this significant news. But trust us, it's a story you deserve to read," the newspaper added.
The newspaper's editor and published have been charged.
Melbourne's second most popular newspaper, The Age, reported that rampant use of suppression orders by Victorian courts was "almost absurd" in the digital era. Its editor and publisher are charged.
The Associated Press had a reporter in the court during Pell's trial and abided by the suppression order. The AP reported full details of the case and published photographs and video as soon as the order was lifted. Like some other international media organizations with reporters in the court, the AP has Australia-based staff who could have been as exposed to prosecution for breaching the order as the Australian media.
The suppression order was designed to prevent the December convictions from influencing the jury in a trial that was to be held in April on allegations that Pell groped two boys in a swimming pool as a young priest in the 1970s. Those charges were dropped in February, so the suppression order was lifted.
But media still face charges for sub judice contempt, even though there will be no second jury.
Breaching a suppression order carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison. The other charges are common law contempt offenses with no set maximum penalties.
Pell was sentenced on March 13 to six years in prison. He must serve a minimum of 3 years and 8 months before he is eligible for parole. He is to appeal his convictions in June.
When a journalist for the Illinois Baptist newspaper reported in 2002 on a Baptist pastor who had sexually assaulted two teenage girls in his church, one apparently just 13 years old, he received a furious reprimand.
Glenn L. Akins, then running the Illinois Baptist State Association, offered a bizarre objection: that writing about one pastor who committed sex crimes was unfair because that “ignores many others who have done the same thing.” Akins cited “several other prominent churches where the same sort of sexual misconduct has occurred recently in our state.”
In the end, the Baptists ousted the journalist, Michael W. Leathers, while the pastor who had committed the crimes, Leslie Mason, received a seven-year prison sentence and then, as a registered sex offender, returned to the pulpit at a series of Baptist churches nearby. So Leathers is no longer a journalist, and Mason remained a pastor.
That saga was cited in a searing investigation by The Houston Chronicle and The San Antonio Express-News that found that the Southern Baptist Convention repeatedly tolerated sexual assaults by clergymen and church volunteers. The Chronicle found 380 credible cases of church leaders and volunteers engaging in sexual misconduct, with the victims sometimes shunned by churches, urged to forgive abusers or advised to get abortions.
“Some victims as young as 3 were molested or raped inside pastors’ studies and Sunday school classrooms,” The Chronicle reported.
Leathers told me he is glad he wrote the 2002 article, even if it cost him his career. He expressed frustration at Southern Baptist priorities: The church leadership would expel a church that appointed a woman as senior pastor, even as it accepted sexual predators.
The indifference to criminal behavior is an echo of what has been unearthed in the Roman Catholic Church over the decades. The latest sickening revelations are of priests getting away with raping nuns and with assaulting deaf students.
These new scandals provoke fresh nausea at the hypocrisy of religious blowhards like Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson who thundered at the immorality of gay people even as their own Southern Baptist network tolerated child rape.
I suspect it’s no accident that these crimes emerged in denominations that do not ordain women and that relegate them to second-class status.
“If God is male,” Mary Daly, the feminist theologian, wrote, “then the male is God.”
The result may be threefold: an entitled male clergy, women and girls taught to be submissive in church, and a lack of accountability and oversight. It’s complicated, of course, for many of the Catholic victims were boys, but there does seem to have been an element of elevating male clergy members on a pedestal in a way that made them omnipotent and unaccountable.
“Underneath it all is this patriarchy that goes back millennia,” Serene Jones, the president of Union Theological Seminary, told me, noting the commonality of the Catholic and Southern Baptist Churches: “They both have very masculine understandings of God, and have a structure where men are considered the closest representatives of God.”
The paradox is that Jesus and the early Christian church seem to have been very open to women. The only person in the New Testament who wins an argument with Jesus is an unnamed woman who begs him to heal her daughter (Mark 7:24-30 and Matthew 15:21-28).
The Gospel of Mary, a Gnostic text from the early second century, suggests that Jesus entrusted Mary Magdalene to provide religious instruction to his disciples.
But then conventional hierarchies asserted themselves, and women were mostly barred from religious leadership.
After The Chronicle’s investigation, the Southern Baptists have promised greater training and more background checks, but what’s needed above all is accountability and equality.
“Prohibiting women from the highest ranks of formal leadership fosters a fundamentally toxic masculinity,” Jonathan L. Walton, the Plummer professor of Christian morals at Harvard, told me.
Baptist women have been ready to be heard for a century. I know because my great-grandfather John Howard Shakespeare was the leader of Baptists in Britain from 1898 to 1924 and practiced his sermons on his wife. When she once insisted that she had something else to do, he locked her in an upstairs room.
My great-grandmother Amy, wearing a long dress, then climbed out an upper window and onto a tree branch, and finally clambered down the tree to the ground.
Perhaps inspired by such a strong woman, Shakespeare favored the ordination of women. “That women are not yet permitted to take their proper share in the life and work of our churches is, to our thinking, a relic of barbarism," he wrote in 1901.
So much has changed for women since then, yet even today a majority of religious women still belong to denominations that do not ordain women. And as long as inequality is baked into faith, as long as “men of God” are unaccountable, then sexual assaults will continue.
The problem is not just wayward pastors and priests. Rather it is structural, an inequality and masculine conception of God that empowers rapists.
And, perhaps, embarrasses God.
It’s been 20 years since the publication of Laurie Halse Anderson’s debut novel, “Speak,” about a high school freshman reckoning with the trauma of her rape. Anderson credits “Speak,” which became widely recognized as a Y.A. landmark, with helping her find her voice. Now, she wields the full force of it in SHOUT (Viking, 291 pp., $17.99; ages 13 and up), a memoir told through a series of short poems. Anderson not only reflects on her own rape at the age of 13, she also examines an adolescence and adulthood marked by her veteran father’s PTSD and her mother’s powerlessness over the situation, resulting in her parents’ shared struggle with alcohol. (“I thought I was the only kid with a house on fire, but I wasn’t.”)
“Shout” effectively paints the complexities of coming of age in a household mired in inherited silence and shame. The consequences are viscerally punctuated by a three-part poem about Anderson’s rape, its immediate aftermath and its long-lasting emotional repercussions. (“I did not know / that the haunting / had just begun.”) When it becomes clear Anderson cannot cope with her trauma while under her parents’ roof, she spends 13 months in Denmark as a foreign exchange student. The experience provides a critical step forward in her recovery. Coming back to America and starting college at Georgetown offers another; it’s there that her shame, pain and rage slowly begin to crystallize.
After a fish-out-of-water college experience that included dealing with predatory professors, Anderson married, had children and became a reporter, while also working on fiction. As a reporter, she witnessed the brutal character assassination of a rape victim in court (which she recounts in a poem called “if it please the court”) and then, one night, awoke to the sound of a girl crying. It was a book idea born of a nightmare (“the crying girl was lost in my head”). The crying girl was Melinda and the book, of course, was “Speak.”
“Shout” is Anderson’s reckoning; it follows a hurting cry to the universe that turns into a hard-won path to healing and ultimately unfolds into a powerful call to action. As Anderson captures the whirlwind success of “Speak,” she begins to unpack the intensity of the response she has faced, as both girls and boys approach her to tell about assaults they have survived. Poems like “collective” remind us that we all have a responsibility to keep the conversation about rape culture going. Given that Anderson is tracing several decades of her life, some of the cultural similarities between the first and second parts of “Shout” are unsettling — we’re not as far removed from the stigma around sexual violence as we believe. In one poem, “emergency, in three acts,” Anderson is thwarted by a principal who sets off a fire alarm to cut her school talk short. In “librarian on the cusp of courage” she encounters a librarian who can’t risk her job by ordering “Speak.”
The strengths of “Shout” lie in these foundational experiences that shaped Anderson’s career. The book falters when it strays from the title’s directive, particularly in portions of the first and third parts that meander slightly. Anderson excels when she narrows her focus, aiming her lens directly at the reader to speak about rape culture. Those who recognize their complicity in or perpetuation of it will, and should, feel uncomfortable. Those who are victims and survivors of it will be empowered by its anger and find comfort in its hope. Anderson encourages readers to fight for themselves without understating the difficulties of recovery, and even in her memoir’s darkest moments, she’s conscious of the saving graces that kept her head above the water. Among them, of course: the refuge of words (“the only thing that helped me breathe / was opening a book”).
With “Speak,” Anderson opened the door for more novels exploring the deeply felt and deeply personal aftermath of sexual violence. “Shout” serves as both a testament to the life-altering, lifesaving impact of these types of stories — and as an urgent and brutal reminder of their ongoing necessity.
She remembered her older cousin urging her to keep it a secret. He had said she would get in trouble if she told anyone that he had touched her. How her grandmother would be upset.
A year later, as she walked home from school, two boys forced her into a Victorian house and raped her. She was in the second grade. How could she tell anyone, she wondered? She didn’t even know who the boys were.
Kim Foxx, 46, carried those traumas with her when she stepped to a podium earlier this month and made an extraordinary request in her first term as Chicago’s top prosecutor: She wanted anyone with sexual abuse allegations against the R&B artist R. Kelly to come forward.
The plea came in the wake of a six-hour television documentary, “Surviving R. Kelly,” in which several women accused him of abuse, including keeping them in a house and controlling them with fear and intimidation.
Tensions in Mr. Kelly’s hometown Chicago have long simmered over rumors about his behavior, and a widespread belief that serious allegations were played down over the years because of his talent and because his accusers were black women.
Mr. Kelly has repeatedly denied the allegations. His lawyer, Steve Greenberg, did not respond to requests for comment. But he told The Chicago Sun-Times that Ms. Foxx was unfairly prejudicing his client.
“The lead prosecutor should be silent until there’s evidence,” he said.
Ms. Foxx, the first black woman to serve as the Cook County state’s attorney, was in high school in Chicago when Mr. Kelly began to make a name for himself in the city — and not just for his music. Local residents say he also had a reputation for hanging out with young girls.
Chicago prosecutors tried Mr. Kelly on child pornography charges in 2008 when Ms. Foxx was a sex crimes prosecutor in the office. In her circles, Mr. Kelly’s “Step In the Name of Love” was always on the barbecue playlist, and his song “I Believe I Can Fly” a staple at graduations.
“This is about, for me, opening the doors,” Ms. Foxx said of her request that people with abuse allegations come forward. “We should allow people to have the opportunity to tell their stories and then vet them.”
In a city where Mr. Kelly has become part of the cultural fabric, the suggestion was explosive. Public sentiment has been tilting against Mr. Kelly since the documentary, but support for him is still easy to find in Chicago.
After the documentary aired, Mr. Kelly celebrated his birthday at a Southside nightclub, singing powerfully as adoring fans cheered him on.
Anaya Frazier, a 17-year-old junior at Gwendolyn Brooks Preparatory Academy in Chicago, said two boys recently blasted R. Kelly songs in the cafeteria. When she asked a security guard to get them to turn it off, she said the guard told her to “get over it,” and that the music was not hurting her.
“A lot of young folks in Chicago, they talk about the R. Kelly situation as if it’s a joke,” said Anaya, who takes part in A Long Walk Home, a nonprofit that uses the arts to empower young girls.
Two decades ago, Anaya’s mother, Tiahanna Robinson, went to Kenwood Academy, the same high school that Mr. Kelly had attended. Ms. Robinson said she remembered Mr. Kelly, who had long since left the school, as one of many men who used to hang around the campus and spend time with female students.
“I knew it was wrong,” said Ms. Robinson, 37. “But at the same time, it was normal almost because that’s what was going on in the area.”
Ms. Robinson said she was no longer a fan of R. Kelly, but her boyfriend still plays his music, arguing that you can love the art and not the artist.
Whether they listen to Mr. Kelly’s music or not, Ms. Robinson said, black Chicagoans are unified in acknowledging “that they don’t protect their women and it’s time for them to step up.”
The documentary on Mr. Kelly “sickened me,” Ms. Foxx said. But she insisted that she was separating her feelings as a prosecutor, who must follow the law and the evidence, from those as a sexual assault survivor and mother of two teenage daughters.
As a toddler, Ms. Foxx lived in the Cabrini-Green public housing complex with her mother before the family moved around to apartments on the North Side.
Ms. Foxx said she knew she wanted to become a lawyer when she was about 6 years old and her mother brought her to court for a proceeding to get child support from Ms. Foxx’s father. Ms. Foxx said she remembered being impressed by the lawyers’ fancy language and the fact that they were trying to help her mother.
She earned her bachelor’s degree in political science and a law degree at Southern Illinois University and then worked for Cook County as a guardian representing neglected children.
One case stood out. A 14-year-old client was abused by her stepfather, and the girl’s mother blamed her for the abuse and accused her of seducing the man, Ms. Foxx said. Ms. Foxx said she could not fathom that anyone could fault a child in a situation like that.
When she joined the Cook County state’s attorney office in 2001, she prosecuted sex crimes with a focus on people victimized by those in positions of authority.
A year after she became a prosecutor, the office filed 21 counts of child pornography charges against Mr. Kelly in connection with a tape of Mr. Kelly having sex with someone prosecutors asserted was a minor. A jury acquitted Mr. Kelly of all charges despite a 27-minute video that prosecutors said showed him having sex with and urinating on an underage girl. In local media reports, some jurors said that they couldn’t be certain about the identity of the female in the video.
Ms. Foxx was not involved in Mr. Kelly’s prosecution at that time, but she had a front-row seat not just to the drama playing out in court, but also to the one in the community.
At family outings, she said, she would hear his defenders question whether the girl in the tape was a willing participant, and whether this was simply an attempt to take down a black man at the height of his career.
Ms. Foxx would not say whether she still listens to Mr. Kelly’s music, saying that she did not want to show any bias in the event that there is a case against him. And she has insisted that the old prosecution had no bearing on her current actions as the state’s attorney.
Her office has received more than a dozen reports about Mr. Kelly since she made her request, she said. Two of the reports, she said, came from families that lost contact with relatives the families believed were being coerced by Mr. Kelly.
She said investigators would look into the complaints and that she would make a determination on how to proceed.
Ms. Foxx said she needed to be proactive in such cases, in part because survivors of sex crimes have a difficult time in coming forward.
“I hope that the public has seen that there is a real need to have conversations about sexual abuse and sexual assault,” she said, “particularly with young victims.”
SALT LAKE CITY — A Utah filmmaker who co-founded the Sundance Film Festival and produced an Oscar-winning movie in the mid-1980s has been charged with sexual abuse of a young girl.
Sterling Van Wagenen, 71, is accused of inappropriately touching a girl on two occasions between 2013 and 2015, according to a probable cause statement filed with the charges on April 4. The alleged abuse occurred in two northern Utah cities when the girl was between the ages of 7 and 9, online court records show.
Van Wagenen's attorney, Steven Shapiro, declined to comment. Van Wagenen didn't return an email and phone call. He has not yet entered a plea to one count of felony sexual abuse of a child.
Van Wagenen co-founded a Utah film festival that came to be known as Sundance Film Festival with Robert Redford and was the Sundance Institute's founding executive director, according to his biography page on the University of Utah website, where he was a part-time instructor until his recent resignation.
Sundance Film Festival officials didn't immediately return an email and phone message seeking comment. His affiliation with the organization ended in 1993 when he left the advisory board, The Salt Lake Tribune reported.
Van Wagenen, who posted $75,000 bail, is scheduled to be in court on May 2 for a scheduling hearing. The case was reported to police by child protective services after the girl told her parents about the alleged abuse.
Van Wagenen produced the 1985 film, "The Trip to Bountiful," a story of an elderly woman who longs to return to her home that earned the late actress Geraldine Page an Oscar for her starring performance.
He also directed the 1992 film "Alan & Naomi" about the trauma of the Holocaust on children and was a producer of the 1991 move "Convicts" starring Robert Duvall and James Earl Jones.
More recently, he was a director of the 2009 documentary called "Learning from the Light: The Vision of I.M. Pei" about a well-known architect and an executive director of the 2018 historical tale "Jane and Emma" about a black woman's friendship with the wife of Joseph Smith, the founder of The Church of Jesus of Latter-day Saints.
Van Wagenen resigned from his part-time instructor position at the University of Utah's Film and Media Arts Department on Feb. 15 after being put on administrative leave on Feb. 5, university spokesman Chris Nelson said. He said the university can't provide any more details other than to say he had worked at the university since October 2012.
Van Wagenen's resignation came after a man came forward to accuse Van Wagenen of molesting him as a boy in 1993. No charges have been filed in that case, which was made public by a website that serves as a watchdog for The Church of Jesus of Latter-day Saints, widely known as the Mormon church.
The church-owned Brigham Young University in Utah employed Van Wagenen as a film instructor from 1993 to 1999, and he was director of content for its broadcasting arm, BYUtv, from 2007-2010, university spokeswoman Carri Jenkins said. The school received no reports of sexual misconduct from his time there, Jenkins said.
Van Wagenen also periodically worked for the church as a producer and director for many years on a variety of projects, including temple videos, said church spokesman Eric Hawkins said. The church wasn't aware of any of Van Wagenen's alleged behaviors until recently and reported them to authorities, Hawkins said.
He declined to say if Van Wagenen has been kicked out of the faith, citing church policy to keep personal matters private.
The church considers child abuse to be among the most serious sins and that anyone who commits the act should be held accountable, Hawkins said.
EAST LANSING, Mich. — A Michigan State University student who accused counseling center staff of discouraging her from reporting a 2015 rape by three men's basketball players said Thursday that she is no longer afraid and wants to encourage other "silent survivors" of sexual assault to tell their stories.
Bailey Kowalski, 22, who will graduate in May with a biology degree, held a news conference on the fourth anniversary of the alleged incident. She spoke a day after going public with her name for the first time in a story published by The New York Times.
"This isn't a burden they have to carry on their own," she said of other rape victims, as her parents, brother and lawyer looked on inside a hotel meeting room near the East Lansing campus. Kowalski, who cried at times, said her decisions to sue the university a year ago and to identify herself now were influenced by watching victims of disgraced former university sports doctor Larry Nassar come forward.
"It empowered me to do it," she said.
The suit, in which Kowalski is listed as Jane Doe and the now former "notable" players are not identified, alleges that she was 18 on April 12, 2015, when she met the players at an East Lansing bar about a week after the team lost in the Final Four. She was later taken to one of the men's off-campus apartments, where the players took turns raping her in a bedroom, according to the complaint, which says she thought she might have been drugged.
She awoke a few hours later on a couch, caught a taxi back to her dorm room and contacted university counseling center staff about a week later. After telling a counselor that basketball players were involved, she said the staff discouraged her from notifying the police.
"I was intimidated, and I was told that I was going to be swimming with some really big fish," Kowalski said Thursday. "I'll never forget that phrase and the immediate feeling of despair and isolation."
She said she has nothing to be ashamed of and there are other victims.
"I want to be an example for them. These silent survivors matter and they're worth fighting for. They hide in plain sight of all of us," she said. "Lastly, I want the system surrounding Michigan State University to change, and I want all people to be treated with dignity and respect regardless of their status or the revenue they bring to the university."
The suit, which was amended in December, points to past alleged sexual assaults involving MSU athletes, including two separate 2010 incidents in which a total five basketball players allegedly raped women and were not charged or disciplined. It alleges that the university violated Title IX requirements and Kowalski's rights by failing to follow normal reporting and investigative procedures when athletes were involved, actively discouraging victims from filing reports and not notifying them of reporting and confidentiality options.
Kowalski, who was studying to be a sports journalist before the encounter, has no plan to file a police report but is not ruling it out completely, said her attorney, Karen Truszkowski.
Kowalski said she went from being a "bleed green Spartan fan" as a freshman to not caring that the team made the Final Four this year. She said she would have filed a police report if she had known that she or her friends would not get into trouble for using fake IDs at the bar, and she would have had a rape kit done if not for fears that her parents' insurance would be billed.
"I was terrified to tell anybody," she said.
The school declined to comment on the lawsuit because it hasn't been resolved. Last year, though, it said Kowalski was treated appropriately by counselors, and it denied that she was discouraged to file a Title IX complaint or to contact the police.
The university opened a Title IX investigation after learning of the suit. The review is ongoing.
"We are committed to listening to survivors who bravely tell us about their experiences so that we can improve our response and help those who seek support in the future," school spokeswoman Emily Gerkin Guerrant said in a statement Thursday.
___
This story has been corrected to show that the attorney's last name is Truszkowski instead of Truszkowki. The spelling of Kowalski's last name was also corrected in one reference.
___
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning.
Renault prepares to cut ties with its jailed leader, Venezuela’s opposition challenges President Nicolás Maduro and South Korea’s #MeToo movement gets a boost. Here’s the latest:
The French automaker is scheduled to name a new chief executive and chairman today, officially severing ties with its longtime leader.
Details: Mr. Ghosn’s arrest in Japan on charges of financial misconduct has created a deep divide between Renault and Nissan, where he was also chairman. The push for the leadership change came from the French government, Renault’s largest shareholder, in a bid to save its alliance with the Japanese company — the dominant performer in the partnership.
One of the French automaker’s greatest concerns is that Nissan may seek to rebalance the current shareholding structure: Renault owns a 43 percent stake in Nissan, while Nissan holds 15 percent in Renault with no voting rights.
In an unusual move, French government officials flew to Tokyo to meet with Japanese officials and Nissan stakeholders last week to try to smooth relations.
What’s next? Renault’s nomination committee is expected to recommend Jean-Dominique Senard, chief executive of the French tire maker Michelin, as the new chairman of the board, and Thierry Bolloré of Renault as the new chief executive.
A former senior prosecutor, Ahn Tae-geun, was sentenced to two years in prison on charges that he abused his power to have a junior prosecutor, Seo Ji-hyeon, transferred after she accused him of sexual misconduct.
Background: Last year, Ms. Seo accused Mr. Ahn — once a rising star at the Justice Ministry — of sexually molesting her. She said she had been so traumatized by the abuse that she had a miscarriage. But she said that when she lodged a formal complaint, Mr. Ahn used his influence to have her transferred to an obscure posting in a small provincial city.
Mr. Ahn has denied the charges against him.
Why it matters: Ms. Seo’s decision to make her accusations public was a highly unusual move in a country where victims of sexual violence have been afraid to speak out, and it encouraged a steady stream of other women to break their silence about alleged sexual abuse.
In other South Korea news: A former chief justice of the country’s Supreme Court was arrested on charges of conspiring with the ousted and impeached president, Park Geun-hye. He is the first former or sitting chief justice to be arrested.
Afghanistan’s intelligence agency said that the mastermind behind a fatal attack at its base this week had been killed in an airstrike. But local residents said the strike had in fact killed civilians.
Background: The Taliban packed an armored Humvee with explosives that it detonated at an Afghan intelligence base on Monday, killing at least 40 intelligence personnel and injuring 60 others. It was the deadliest attack against the intelligence agency in the entire war.
Details: The intelligence agency said it had determined who orchestrated the attack, a man the agency identified as Commander Noman, and targeted him and seven others in the airstrike. But locals said the strike killed civilians, including a teenager, who were out hunting for food.
Go deeper: Hours after the Taliban attack, the group announced they had resumed peace talks with U.S. officials, underlining the complexities of winding down America’s presence in the country.
Another angle: An Italian physiotherapist has spent the last 30 years in Afghanistan restoring the limbs, and dignity, of a war-torn nation. And follow our senior correspondent in Afghanistan on Instagram for scenes on the ground.
Juan Guaidó swore himself in as the country’s president as tens of thousands gathered in anti-government protests — the most direct challenge yet to President Nicolás Maduro.
President Trump — along with Canada, Brazil, Colombia and Paraguay — quickly recognized Mr. Guaidó as the interim leader, adding to the turmoil that has gripped the rapidly deteriorating country.
Background: Mr. Maduro’s presidency is teetering after many countries refused to recognize his disputed re-election last year. Under his leadership, the country’s economy has spiraled downward, with hyperinflation reaching one million percent, and food, water and medicine supplies are running low.
What’s next? Unclear. There was no immediate sign that Mr. Maduro would give in to pressure and resign. The opposition was hoping that a significant turnout for demonstrations today would persuade the military to break ranks with the president — a crucial step to ousting him.
China: The authorities confirmed that Yang Hengjun, a well-known writer with Australian citizenship, has been arrested, according to the Australian Embassy in Beijing, although the reason for his detention is still unclear.
U.S. shutdown: Following a tit-for-tat between President Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi over the State of the Union, the president said he would look for alternative venues for the speech on Tuesday. Ms. Pelosi told him he wasn’t welcome to give the address in the House until the government reopened.
Cambodia: An “officially amazing” 8,900-pound sticky-rice cake, the world’s longest scarf, the world’s longest dragon boat: These oddball Guinness World Record achievements are part of Prime Minister Hun Sen’s push to get young people excited about his aging regime.
Russia: Officials put a new cruise missile on display for a foreign audience for the first time, in an attempt to rebut American accusations that the weapon violates a key nuclear arms accord. But the U.S. argued that inspecting a stationary missile would not prove compliance.
Australian Open: Serena Williams lost to Karolina Pliskova, the No. 7 seed, after rolling her left ankle. The loss indicates that her 13-month absence from the court gave her opponents a chance to grow. And here’s all our coverage from Melbourne.
Missing soccer player: Emiliano Sala, who had just signed with Cardiff City of the English Premier League, was aboard a small plane that disappeared over the English Channel on Monday, and he and the pilot are feared dead. Sala reportedly sent his friends chilling audio messages from the flight, saying “I’m so afraid.”
Chris Brown: The R&B singer was released without charges after he was questioned by the Paris police over a rape accusation, according to the authorities. He later denied the accusations on Instagram.
Lunar eclipse: On Sunday and Monday, as the Western Hemisphere looked up to watch the Earth’s shadow cover the moon, some saw a mysterious flash of light. The explanation, experts say, is that a tiny meteoroid slammed into the moon’s surface.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Top garlicky, herb-flecked rice with fried eggs for a deeply satisfying meal.
Do you have relatives who are too old to drive? Here’s our guide to when to hit the brakes.
These new multitasking lipsticks stay on for hours — and hydrate.
The Cairo International Book Fair has weathered censorship disputes and violent protests. Only in 2011, during the Arab Spring, was it canceled outright. This year is its 50th incarnation.

As the oldest and largest book fair in the Middle East, it usually attracts at least a million visitors. Many simply want to snap up popular books at discounted prices.
This year’s fair is just opening. It features 748 publishers from 35 countries. “I know kids who save up to buy bags worth of books,” said the Egyptian author Ahdaf Soueif (أهداف سويف).
But the organizers have been blasted for moving the fair from the city center to a cavernous convention center in the suburbs. Some Egyptians say they can’t afford to reach the new site.
Booksellers from a famous secondhand market in central Cairo are boycotting the event. They’ve come up with their own solution — a rival book fair. 
Declan Walsh, our Cairo bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
SYDNEY, Australia — In the soft afternoon light, men and women huddle in groups, their images reflected in floor-to-ceiling mirrors. Some kiss. Some fondle one another. Some touch fingertips, tension sizzling.
This isn’t a nightclub or an orgy. The men and women are actors. And they’re taking part in an “intimacy workshop” — part of a growing trend to carve out safe spaces in the theater and film industries.
At the helm is Ita O’Brien, a London-based “intimacy coordinator.” A former dancer and director, she — along with other intimacy coordinators and specialized stunt people — is emerging as a powerful influence in an industry grappling with the fallout of #MeToo.
Ms. O’Brien, 53, has worked for the likes of HBO and Netflix. And her approach, increasingly in demand globally, has found particular resonance in Australia, where a laddish culture persists in a world of theater and film that tends to be insular and has recently come under fire for protecting the status quo.
Accusations of sexual misconduct like those against the Oscar-winning actor Geoffrey Rush — first by the actress Eryn Jean Norvill, who accused him of deliberately stroking her breast during a 2015-16 production of “King Lear,” and later by the “Orange Is the New Black” star Yael Stone — have rocked the industry in Australia.
[Sign up for the Australia Letter to get analysis, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox each week.]
Yet the #MeToo movement has been slow to take off, largely because the country’s defamation laws heavily favor the accused.
Ms. O’Brian says the global entertainment industry should have a code of conduct so that performers can operate in the workplace “without fear” — a need illustrated by several cases that made headlines in recent years.
The 2013 film “Blue is the Warmest Color” was applauded for its raw and exposing depictions of lesbian sex. But one of its main stars, the French actress Léa Seydoux, later described the filming as “humiliating” and said it had made her feel “like a prostitute.”
Three years later, with the #MeToo movement prompting a reconsideration of previously accepted norms, an infamous anal rape scene in the 1972 film “Last Tango in Paris” was condemned as akin to sexual abuse. The scene, involving butter and a baguette, had been sprung without prior warning upon the 19-year-old actress Maria Schneider, who later said that during the scene she had felt “raped.”
To avoid any compromising situations — and to help productions safeguard against litigation or accusations of inappropriate behavior — Ms. O’Brien has created a series of “Intimacy on Set” guidelines for directors, producers and actors.
They include always having a third party present in rehearsals, agreeing in advance on areas of physical touch and nudity levels, employing modesty patches and pouches to ensure that bare genitals never touch, and using proper terms for body parts and sexual activities.
The guidelines also say that intimate scenes — whether they involve full simulated intercourse or the smallest physical contact — should be fully choreographed, and that during rehearsals actors should verbally consent to all physical contact before it is made.
And Hollywood is on the same page: HBO announced in October that all future productions involving sex scenes would have an intimacy coordinator present, and North American nonprofits like Intimacy Directors International, founded in 2016, are gaining traction.
Ms. O’Brien was partly inspired to travel to Australia after connecting with Safe Theatres Australia, an organization co-founded by Ms. Norvill and Sophie Ross, an actress and activist, that aims to combat sexual harassment, bullying and discrimination. In 2017, they delivered a dossier to major Australian theater companies containing 58 anonymous testimonies describing such infractions.
Shelley Casey, 31, a Sydney-based actress who attended Ms. O’Brien’s workshop in Sydney last November, described the atmosphere in Australia’s film and theater worlds as “Just get on with it — don’t cause a fuss.”
Recalling rehearsals in which she was made to perform intimate moments as other production members chanted and whooped, she compared the expectation to improvise sex scenes to an era when fight scenes were also improvised — leading to unsafe rehearsals.
“Imagine the days when they put a sword in your hand and said, ‘Just wing this fight scene!’” she said, whereas the Intimacy on Set guidelines give “everyone the rules, the boundaries, the language, the communication.”
Many actors feel that they have no choice but to go along with a director’s instructions, particularly in an industry rife with power imbalance and celebrity worship.
Ms. O’Brien says she has heard plenty of horror stories: actresses unexpectedly told to remove undergarments on set, and sex scenes veering out of control while the camera is rolling, leaving one party feeling taken advantage of.
To give power back to the performers, her workshops focus on consent.
In Sydney, actors paired off with a director to create an intimate scene, stating out loud where they were happy to be touched, and where they were not happy to be. The key was to ask, when undoing a belt or stroking a person’s thigh: “Is this O.K.?”
“It just means there are no assumptions made,” Ms. O’Brien said, “and you have that moment of agreement and consent of touch, and everyone feels taken care of and happy.”
As a team, the groups then blocked every step of the scene so that nothing was a surprise.
Stemming abuse is not the only issue. Many at the workshop — where participants mimicked the mating rhythms of horses and gorillas in a bid to loosen up — said that using standardized guidelines also lessened the awkwardness of sex scenes.
Last year, Ms. O’Brien worked on the British set of the Netflix comedy “Sex Education,” which follows the trials of a teenage virgin and was released in January. The show’s director, Ben Taylor, said it was this “initial breaking down of taboos” that was most valuable, as well as the open discussion of sex scenes.
“Our shoot was far better for us having met Ita,” Mr. Taylor said in a telephone interview. “I think she is about to become very busy.”
He said that Ms. O’Brien had created a critical space to discuss fears and anxieties with a young, often inexperienced cast. And, he stressed, the focus was not just on physical safety, but also on ensuring that the sex scenes appeared authentic.
“Weirdly, probably the most revolutionary part was not the filming of it at all, just talking about it way in advance — settling nerves and making it a subject you wanted to explore and talk about,” Mr. Taylor said.
Not every member of his cast was sold on the idea.
“For some people it was almost like having a third wheel they didn’t need to have,” he said, and a handful of his younger actors who had not gone through traditional training asked, “‘Why is this woman making me breathe like a gorilla or move like a fish?’”
A longstanding criticism of over-rehearsing sex scenes has been that it will lead to a loss of chemistry. Bernardo Bertolucci, who directed “Last Tango in Paris,” once defended the film’s rape scene by arguing that he had wanted Ms. Schneider “to feel, not to act, the rage and humiliation.”
Ms. O’Brien argues that her guidelines help create magnetism between actors rather than squelching it. Her program aims to keep the actors “personally safe so they can be artistically free,” she said. “It doesn’t lock down or censor — it actually frees the actor up.”
Sara Wiseman, an Australian-based actress who took part in a workshop that Ms. O’Brien held in Sydney, agreed.
“We have to be vulnerable, we have to be sometimes violent, we have to be intimate with someone, so you want as much support on your side as possible,” said the actress, a New Zealand native known for her roles in the series “Rake” and “A Place to Call Home.”
Ms. Wiseman — who minutes earlier had been performing a tentative and tender kiss scene with another actress in the workshop — paused.
“Then you can bust out the creativity,” she said, “because you know your parameters.”
The explosive documentaries “Leaving Neverland” and “Surviving R. Kelly” have reignited a national conversation about child sex abuse. 
“Leaving Neverland” profiles two men who say Michael Jackson sexually abused them when they were children. Jackson faced several allegations that he molested young boys dating back to 1993, but was never convicted of any charges. 
For more than two decades, R. Kelly has been trailed by a series of allegations of sexual misconduct with minors. Then in February, after “Surviving R. Kelly” aired, the authorities in Chicago charged him with 10 counts of sexual abuse. He denies the charges.
With these developments coming years after the alleged abuse, many are asking why victims can take so long to come forward, why they might at first deny the abuse and whether their parents could have done more. Here are some answers to those difficult questions.
It can take decades for people who are sexually abused as children to come forward, for a multitude of reasons. They may suffer from effects of trauma or believe they are to blame, and it can take years for them to even identify what happened as abuse. In one German study, the average age of disclosure was 52. Despite that, some states in the United States gave victims only two or three years after reaching the age of 18 to seek criminal action.
The Catholic church child abuse scandal in the early 2000s drove most states to change their statute of limitation laws, extending the time those abused as children had to come forward. More recently, a wave of reports like one in Pennsylvania that found more than 1,000 child victims of Catholic priests has renewed a push to allow more time.
Last year, Michigan extended its statute to 15 years after the victim turns 18, and this year New York extended it from age 23 to 28 and gave victims even longer to file civil suits. Marci Hamilton, a child sex abuse expert at the University of Pennsylvania, said a record 34 states are considering changes to the statute of limitations this year.
Legal experts cautioned that in every case, there is much that remains hidden to the public, for reasons that include the privacy of the victims. So it would be unwise to make too many comparisons. But a revered musician would be in an exceptionally strong position to achieve what many abusers strive for: the trust of their communities and the benefit of the doubt. 
[Read the history of sexual abuse allegations against Michael Jackson.]
Child sex abuse occurs when a person uses power to engage a child in sexual activity. 
Abusers target children who both fit their preferences and are vulnerable. They may work to ingratiate themselves with their victims, positioning themselves as special or irreplaceable in the child’s life and only gradually introducing sexual contact. The fact that they do not abuse all children they come in contact with only serves to give them more cover. 
Traditionally this process has been referred to as grooming, but Chris Newlin, the executive director of the National Child Advocacy Center, prefers to call it manipulation. It makes appropriate boundaries very hard to detect.
“Offenders make children like them. If I like you, you’re 98 percent good — it’s just that two percent of the time,” Mr. Newlin said. “This is why children have trouble disclosing when it’s a family member. Because they like them.”
Mr. Newlin also said that not all abuse is violent or physically painful, which would make it harder for children to distinguish it as abuse. 
“The other part about sexual abuse — this sounds gross — is, most of it is gentle and tender,” he said. “It feels good sometimes. It doesn’t hurt. It’s not as scary as a violent rape. And that’s super-confusing for kids.” 
By the same token, Mr. Newlin said, abusers begin by manipulating their community and, particularly, parents. “Before they’re ever really engaging the child in that situation, they’ve been manipulating the parents into thinking they’re trustworthy and safe. And manipulating the environment: ‘There’s no way Chris did something, I’ve known Chris for 20 years, he’s a great guy.’” 
Experts generally agree that there is no uniform set of symptoms or signs that a child is being abused, nor is there a profile that fits every abuser. Even those familiar with the dynamics of sexual abuse can miss it. 
So what can parents do? Don’t shy away from the subject. Children with supportive parents are more likely to report abuse, Mr. Newlin said: “Open conversation, open dialogue about this is really important.” 
“Stranger danger” warnings aside, when it comes to child victims, more than 90 percent are sexually assaulted by someone they know — which makes sense, because those are the adults who generally have access to children. In about a third of such cases, the perpetrator was a family member, according to F.B.I. data, and in another 58 percent it was an acquaintance — a category that includes teachers, foster parents, neighbors and day care employees.
The research, though sparse, seems fairly clear on a couple of points: most children do not disclose abuse, and sexual abuse is difficult to detect. 
Abusers may instill in their victim a sense of shared responsibility for what has taken place, imply that the abuse is the child’s fault, warn them of the importance of secrecy, overtly threaten them or undermine the child’s credibility by forging alliances with other adults in the child’s life.
“It’s a challenge, but it’s not an insurmountable challenge,” said Melissa Jampol, a former sex crimes prosecutor in Manhattan who now serves on an expert committee examining the case of Larry Nassar, who was convicted of molesting the young gymnasts he treated as specialist in sports medicine. “There’s been a sea change since the #MeToo movement started in terms of the way people view victims of these crimes.” 
Many cases, especially those that happened long ago, will come down to the credibility of the victim, though prosecutors must seek any corroboration they can find. And even with changes, the statute of limitations will bar many prosecutions, since such changes cannot be made retroactive in criminal cases. 
That will push much of the legal action into the arena of civil lawsuits. Some states have opened limited “windows” during which victims can sue even if their case is outside the civil statute of limitations. For example, last year Michigan gave victims of Mr. Nassar a 90-day window to file civil suits. 

Luke Heimlich, the former Oregon State star who had failed to land a job in professional baseball after the revelation that he had pleaded guilty to sexually molesting his 6-year-old niece when he was 15, quietly made his pro debut in Mexico on Tuesday.
Even after Heimlich signed a deal with the Tecolotes de los Dos Laredos of the Liga Mexicana de Béisbol last month, it was unclear whether he would be permitted to play for them: The president of the Mexican league immediately cast doubt on the approval of the contract, citing Heimlich’s past conduct and the message the league might send by employing him. As recently as Monday, The Laredo Morning Times reported that the team said it was awaiting clearance from the league to use Heimlich.
But a day later, Heimlich, 23, was on the mound facing the Algodoneros Union Laguna at the Estadio de la Revolución in Torreón, Mexico. He allowed two runs in a five-inning start and struck out five batters.
The league had actually informed the Tecolotes on Saturday that Heimlich’s contract had been authorized, the Tecolotes owner José Antonio Mansur said in a phone interview on Wednesday. The league president, Javier Salinas, had not responded to repeated requests for comment since Saturday, when a line in the league’s official transactions stated that Heimlich had been assigned to the Tecolotes. On Friday, Salinas had said in a message on WhatsApp that a decision on Heimlich’s contract had not yet been made.
Salinas had questioned the move when Heimlich signed with the Tecolotes in March, saying he had to “protect the image of the league.” The team said it was attracted to Heimlich because of his low-90s fastball as a left-hander, and said it felt he deserved a chance at a pro career after serving his legal penalty. But the signing drew criticism from the victim’s family, and Salinas indicated the league would have to closely examine it.
“The player has to have irreproachable conduct and be a good representative of the team and the league,” he said last month. “Like any league, we have to verify that all of our entrants have good conduct. We are an example to a lot of boys and girls.”
The Tecolotes, who have an unusual arrangement with home stadiums on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border, were the second professional team to sign Heimlich. In August, the Lamigo Monkeys in Taiwan reached a deal with the pitcher, but after public outcry, the Chinese Professional Baseball League declared that he could not play there because of his criminal background and the potential effect on the league’s image.
All 30 major league teams passed on drafting or signing Heimlich, although all were allowed to do so.
Last May, in an interview with The New York Times, Heimlich denied that he had committed the crime he admitted to, saying he had pleaded guilty to quickly dispense with the case and for the sake of the family. The victim’s mother, whose name is being withheld to protect her daughter’s identity, has maintained that the girl’s account is truthful.
As part of a plea deal, reached when Heimlich was 16, one of two charges was dropped. He was placed on two years’ probation, took court-ordered classes, wrote a letter apologizing to his niece and was forced to register for five years as a Level 1 sex offender, a designation the State of Washington uses for someone considered of low risk to the community and unlikely to become a repeat offender. His juvenile records are sealed.
Mansur, the Tecolotes’ owner, said the team and the league had either spoken with Heimlich or requested paperwork regarding his case. Last month, the league, which is affiliated with Minor League Baseball and is considered Class AAA, even took the unusual step of asking Heimlich to sign a letter vowing good behavior.
When city officials in Laredo, Tex., learned of Heimlich’s signing, they sent letters to the team notifying them of a city ordinance that prohibits sex offenders at city parks and Uni-Trade Stadium, where the Tecolotes play in Texas. The team provided records from Oregon that showed Heimlich no longer needed to register as a sex offender because his juvenile conviction was expunged, said Rafael Benavides, a spokesman for the city of Laredo.
“Our Laredo Police Department also confirmed that the player’s background check reflects no conviction criminal history information in the Washington State Patrol files,” Benavides said in a statement. “As it stands, the player is not required to register with the State of Texas and has an affirmative defense under our city ordinance.”
Heimlich would have his first chance to play in Texas next week when the Tecolotes return from a road trip.
“There is nothing that could have prevented him from signing in the league,” Mansur said in Spanish, adding, “in reality, I hope the past is left behind for the future.”
JIM THORPE, Pa. — A judge has ruled that the former police chief of a small Pennsylvania town should stand trial on charges he and a friend raped a child over a seven-year period when the two were teenagers.
A judge issued the ruling Monday following a preliminary hearing for 27-year-old Brent Getz. The ex-Weissport chief's friend, 28-year-old Gregory Wagner, will also stand trial.
The two Leighton men were charged last month with rape and related charges. Both remain jailed on $250,000 bail.
State prosecutors said the child was 12 when she alleged assaults by Wagner in 2012, but no charges were filed. Police revisited the case last year and the victim alleged the men had raped her hundreds of times when she was between the ages of 4 and 11.
Donald Trump’s lie-filled rage tweets about Puerto Rico this week over disaster aid continue a Trump pattern that mirrors a method that white supremacists have used throughout American history. Particularly present since Reconstruction, this method involves proclaiming that minorities lack the character and capacity to create effective government, and therefore minority-led jurisdictions are a hopeless drain on resources.
He tweeted that Puerto Rico’s government “can’t do anything right” and that the island’s politicians are “incompetent or corrupt” and only “complain and ask for more money,” which they spend “foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA.” He specifically called the mayor of San Juan “crazed and incompetent.”
Point of fact: Puerto Rico is part of the United States. It is a territory. Its citizens are U.S. citizens. The structure of Trump’s comments leaves open the possibility that he doesn’t know that, or conversely, knows it but doesn’t fully accept it or care about it.
If this were a one-off spat with politicians opposed to his conduct, one might reasonably write Trump’s comments off as politics as usual. Instead, this questioning of the competence of black and brown leaders is not anomaly but motif.
Trump has spent nearly a decade now trying to paint Barack Obama as not only an illegitimate president, but also as an inept, lazy, embarrassing one. He has called him a “sick,” “weak,” “incompetent leader” with a “horrible attitude” who “looks and sounds so ridiculous,” “has disastrous judgment,” is “a total failure” and was “perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States!”
Worse than the white supremacist Andrew Johnson, who did his best to obstruct Reconstruction, opposed the 14th Amendment and was impeached? Worse than Trump’s slave-owning hero Andrew Jackson, whose Indian Removal Act led to the Trail of Tears? Worse than slave-owning John Tyler, who during his time in Congress argued against the Missouri Compromise, which would restrain the spread of the “peculiar institution”? Worse than Millard Fillmore, who backed the protection of Southern slavery in the Compromise of 1850, which delayed Southern secession? Worse than Richard Nixon, who was forced from office? Worse than George W. Bush, who lied this country into the war in Iraq? Worse than Trump himself?
Let’s submit that Trump has in some ways been an equal opportunity offender and gone after all his political opponents to some degree — he incessantly called Hillary Clinton “crooked” and Bernie Sanders “crazy.”
Still, that doesn’t fully account for the particular consistency with which he attacks minority leaders and minority-led entities as inadequate, ineffective and incompetent.
According to Trump, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams was “totally unqualified” and would “destroy” the state of Georgia. Abrams is a star, and the way that state’s election was handled will do more to destroy it than Abrams ever could.
According to Trump, former Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum was “a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!” There is no evidence of theft by Gillum, and Tallahassee isn’t the most corrupt city.
According to Trump, legendary Congressman John Lewis’s district “is in horrible shape and falling apart.” It is not. PolitiFact rated Trump’s claim “mostly false.”
Even majority-black and majority-brown countries around the globe have been condemned and dismissed by Trump in this way. Haiti, El Salvador and African countries are “shithole countries.” Mexico has a “totally corrupt gov’t,” and it is sending “animals” and “rapists” across the border.
Yet he has lobbed praise at strongmen — mostly in Europe and Asia — for being great leaders. Think Russia and North Korea.
(Western nations have also piqued his anger when they have not been sufficiently ruthless with their minority populations. He said that Britain was “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem,” and Germany “is going through massive attacks to its people by the migrants allowed to enter the country.” But Trump still maintains “a great feeling for Germany.” That feeling is apparently so great that he keeps lying that his father, Fred Trump, was born there, like he did again this week. Fred Trump was born in New York.)
To me, this marking of minorities as incapable of good governance harkens back to the Reconstruction period, when white supremacists promoted racist caricatures of newly elected black legislators acting uncouth as a way to fuel an angry backlash. This shows up in newspaper illustrations and in the film “The Birth of a Nation,” in which black legislators — eating, drinking and some without shoes — are shown in a state of chaos.
These white supremacists, many wealthy and powerful, used the threat of “black domination” to scare poorer whites into allegiance, warning them of race-mixing, miscegenation and the rape of white women and girls. They also warned about the crude attempt of black people to be civilized and judicious.
This is very similar to what Trump tweeted this week, trying to pit suffering farmers in the Midwest against suffering Puerto Rican hurricane survivors.
Trump tweeted that “Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before.”
That, of course, was just another lie. As The New York Times reported:
The farmers are mostly old, white men. As Modern Farmer pointed out in 2014:
Puerto Rico is 99 percent Hispanic.
Trump made his point clear: The mismanagement and incompetence of these brown people amount to stealing resources from these white people. As he tweeted: “Cannot continue to hurt our Farmers and States with these massive payments, and so little appreciation!”
The brown people were supposed to be thankful that white daddy in “the States” was helping them at all. As Trump tweeted, “The best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico is President Donald J. Trump.”
This is the kind of paternalistic white supremacy that doesn’t even require open hostility, although plenty often accompanies it. The logic goes this way: Everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are in charge and calling the shots.
This is part of what drew so many white voters to Trump, whether they admit it or not: He promised to destroy, erase or replace everything President Obama had done, thereby fixing the glitch in the narrative that the only true and good leaders of America were white leaders. In the white supremacist imagination, even this horrendous white leader is better than the most educated, articulate and erudite black man.
That logic also says to people like the Puerto Ricans that even in their suffering, minorities are better off being part of this country.
This reminds me of a letter Robert E. Lee wrote to his wife in 1856 in which he said:
“The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, and I hope will prepare and lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known and ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.”
For all minorities in America, the subjugation continues, particularly now that Trump wants to dictate who is worthy of assistance and who should be allowed to suffer.
Pope Benedict XVI has ventured out of retirement to publish an essay blaming the Catholic Church's sex abuse scandal on the sexual revolution of the 1960s and church laws that protected priests.
His analysis was immediately criticized as "catastrophically irresponsible" — a conflict with efforts by his successor, Pope Francis, to lead the church out of its crisis.
"Why did pedophilia reach such proportions? Ultimately, the reason is the absence of God," Benedict wrote, in the 6,000-word essay published Thursday in the German monthly Klerusblatt, the Catholic News Agency and other conservative media.
Benedict traced the start of the crisis to the '60s, citing the appearance of sex in films in his native Bavaria and the formation of "homosexual cliques" in seminaries "which acted more or less openly and significantly changed the climate." He also attributed it to failures in moral theology in that era.
"Perhaps it is worth mentioning that in not a few seminaries, students caught reading my books were considered unsuitable for the priesthood," the conservative theologian wrote. "My books were hidden away, like bad literature, and only read under the desk."
Benedict also faulted church laws that gave undue protection to accused priests. During the 1980s and 1990s, he wrote, "the right to a defense (for priests) was so broad as to make a conviction nearly impossible."
As Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, Benedict spearheaded reforms of those laws in 2001 to make it easier to remove priests who abused children. Benedict took a hard line against clerical sex abuse as the Vatican's conservative doctrine chief, and later as pope, defrocking hundreds of priests accused of raping and molesting children.
Francis has blamed the scandal on a clerical culture in the church that raises priests above the laity.
At his retirement in 2013, Benedict had said he would devote his remaining life to penance and prayer, leaving Francis to guide the church. He said in the introduction to the essay that Francis and the Vatican secretary of state had given him permission to publish. The Vatican confirmed it was written by Benedict.
Church historian Christopher Bellitto questioned if Benedict, who turns 92 next week, was being manipulated by others. He said the essay omitted the critical conclusions that arose from the pope's February sex abuse summit in Rome, including that "abusers were priests along the ideological spectrum, that the abuse predated the 1960s, that it is a global and not simply Western problem, that homosexuality is not the issue in pedophilia."
"It is catastrophically irresponsible, because it creates a counter-narrative to how Francis is trying to move ahead based on the 2019 summit," Bellitto told The Associated Press in an email. "The essay essentially ignores what we learned there."
In fact, records indicate the church hierarchy knew about clergy sexual abuse long before the 1960s — as early as the fourth century. It also was once more open: In 1741, for example, Pope Benedict XIV wanted it widely known that priests would be punished, so he posted notifications on church doors.
The essay was applauded by some on the right. Writing in The Catholic Herald, Chat Pecknold praised the intervention as a necessary word from "the voice of a father" that accurately identified an absence of God as the reason for the crisis.
"I suspect that after all the studies are done, after the review boards are formed, cases heard, after new protocols and safeguards are in place, Benedict's answer will be the one which endures," he wrote. "What will be remembered as the seed of renewal, as the root of restoration, is precisely Benedict's counsel that we turn our faces back to Christ who is the perfect image of the Father's love."
But other U.S. church analysts said the essay was both flawed in content and problematic on universal church level, exacerbating existing divisions in the church that have emerged between supporters of Francis and Catholics nostalgic for Benedict's doctrine-minded papacy.
Villanova University theologian Massimo Faggioli said the essay was thin in its analysis, effectively attributing the scandal to the sexual revolution. He said it omitted key cases, such as the Legion of Christ founder's pedophilia, which began well before then and involved abuse in one of the most rigorously orthodox, conservative religious orders.
"If a pope emeritus decides to stay silent, it's one thing and can be defended. But speaking and telling a tiny part and a very personal version of the story, it's hard to defend," he said on Twitter.
"Everything we know in the global history of the Catholic abuse crisis makes Benedict XVI's take published yesterday very thin or worse: a caricature of what happened during in the Catholic Church during the post-Vatican II period — with all its ingenuities and some tragic mistakes," he tweeted.
David Gibson at Fordham University's Center on Religion and Culture agreed with that assessment.
"For a retired pope to try to undo the critical work of a sitting pope and on such a crucial issue seems ... bad," he said.
Benedict's suggestion that the crisis can be traced to the 1960s is belied by records that indicate sexual abuse has been a problem for ages. The church hierarchy knew about clergy sexual abuse as early as the fourth century. It also was once more open: In 1741, for example, Pope Benedict XIV wanted it widely known that priests would be punished, so he posted notifications on church doors.
 [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]
It’s Thursday. Happy Pi Day! (As in 3.14)
Weather: Great news: It may reach 60 degrees today and tomorrow. Bad news: it may rain tomorrow.
Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 21 (Purim).
Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, was indicted. (Again.)
Mr. Manafort was also sentenced. (Again.)
Two banks that financed Trump projects in New York and elsewhere were subpoenaed.
And that’s just this week, when New York State officials took on a much bigger role in the investigations swirling around the president and his associates.
Confused by the barrage of inquiries — and especially what New York officials are doing?
Let us explain:
Who is investigating in New York?
• Attorney General Letitia James, a Democrat and vocal critic of Mr. Trump.
• The state’s Department of Financial Services, which is part of Governor Cuomo’s administration. He is a Democrat and successfully campaigned for re-election last year on the theme of battling Mr. Trump.
• The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., a Democrat who said Mr. Trump’s policies and oratory undermine security efforts at home and abroad.
What are they looking into?
• Ms. James subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank, which financed Trump projects in New York, Chicago, Washington and Florida.
• Financial Services issued an expansive subpoena to the Trump Organization’s longtime insurance broker, Aon.
What happened to Mr. Manafort?
• Mr. Vance charged Mr. Manafort yesterday with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other felonies. That’s a state case.
Earlier in the day, in Mr. Manafort’s federal cases, a judge sentenced him to more jail time, for a total of seven and a half years in prison, adding to an order from another judge last week.
What is the role of the federal investigations?
• There is overlap between some of the federal investigations and the recent state ones. One important difference is that as president, Mr. Trump has the authority to pardon someone convicted of federal crimes. Presidents cannot pardon someone convicted of state crimes.
Why is all this happening now? 
• The inquiries by Ms. James and Financial Services came after congressional testimony last month from Mr. Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen. Under oath, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump inflated the value of his assets in documents provided to Deutsche Bank as part of a bid to buy the Buffalo Bills.
• Mr. Manafort’s state indictment came as a result of an inquiry that Mr. Vance’s office began in 2017. That investigation was postponed because it overlapped with another one by the federal special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.
What are the politics?
• Mr. Cohen’s congressional testimony is fueling the New York investigations. Democrats are facing pressure from their base to do something about Mr. Trump — investigate him, block him, impeach him.
• Here’s what’s interesting: Mr. Trump has been operating in New York — which has no shortage of ambitious regulators — for decades. The inquiries may be new. Mr. Trump’s finances are not.
• Of course, supporters of Mr. Trump will label the New York investigations as nothing more than an escalation of what he has termed a witch hunt. (The inquiry by Ms. James’s office is a civil investigation, not a criminal one. Financial Services is limited to civil regulatory actions, although it can refer possible criminal conduct to a local district attorney or the state attorney general.)
Mr. Cali, 53, was shot six times last night outside his home, an official said.
A neighbor said he heard a burst of gunshots shortly after 9 p.m.
The Gambino family was once the nation’s largest and most influential organized crime group, but several of its leaders were convicted in the 1990s of crimes that included murder and racketeering.
[Read the full story]
A man bought a $238 million penthouse on Central Park South, and it may lead to the nation’s first tax on superluxury second homes.
Birthday billboard for Dad: It had a phone number on it, and 20,000 strangers called with wishes.
It could save their lives. So why don’t detectives always wear a bulletproof vest?
A former New Jersey priest accused of sexual abuse was found shot to death in his Nevada home.
Old rape kits finally got tested, and 64 attackers were convicted.
[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]
The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.
The Chrysler Building may become a hotel, a new owner says. [Bloomberg]
A lamb was rescued after it went running on the Gowanus Expressway. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]
Thousands of city students are anxiously waiting to find out if they were accepted into the public high schools they applied to. [WNYC]
A chocolate festival is coming to Queens College on March 24. [QNS]
Tomorrow is National Egg Cream Day. But the Museum at Eldridge Street is getting a day’s head start in celebrating with a workshop and contest to celebrate the classic Lower East Side drink. 6 p.m. [$10]
Make your way to the Jamaica Center for Arts & Learning in Queens for a night of jazz. 8 p.m. [$10]
The Museum of the City of New York will have a discussion on the film “El Pueblo Se Levanta” with Juan González, a founding member of the Young Lords, and Bev Grant, one of the film’s creators. 6:30 p.m. [$15]
— Derek Norman 
Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.
“Blue Marble” is the title of one of the first photos of our planet, taken from outer space in 1972.
“It was the first-ever image we had of ourselves as a single unit,” said Sebastian ErraZuriz, a designer, artist and tech entrepreneur.
It carried a profound message, he said: “Our destinies are fully tied; our differences are insignificant.”
Now, Mr. ErraZuriz is bringing his version of that image to New York.
He and his team are projecting live images of Planet Earth, taken from a NASA satellite, onto a giant outdoor LED screen at 159 Ludlow Street in Manhattan.
The presentation is called “blu Marble” and runs until April 13.
“There’s something really weirdly beautiful in realizing that we’re all together on that little rock,” ErraZuriz said in an interview. He jokingly compared the live-streamed images of Earth to a giant map.
“It may be the most macro ‘You are here now’ one could possibly do,” he said.
It’s Thursday — where are you?
Dear Diary:
We went to see Elton John at Madison Square Garden. Not an empty seat in the place, and he still rocks the house. The music covered us like a favorite old sweater.
There was one big difference between the show at the Garden and the concerts of our youth. Instead of the smell of pot, there was a pronounced odor of Vicks in the air.
— Jack Hartog 
New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.
We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Cardinal George Pell, the highest ranking Catholic clergyman convicted of sexually abusing children, left a courtroom in Melbourne, Australia, on Wednesday flanked by police officers to spend his first night in jail, after a judge heard arguments to determine his sentence for molesting two choirboys in 1996.
Wednesday’s hearing followed months of judicial proceedings that were kept out of the news media by a strict gag order, and which resulted in the cardinal’s conviction on five charges in December.
Hours after the hearing, the Vatican said that it would conduct its own investigation of the cardinal, who had been a top adviser to Pope Francis, and that he no longer held a powerful Vatican post.
Judge Peter Kidd of the County Court of Victoria told a packed courtroom on Wednesday that Cardinal Pell’s “brazen, callous offending” deserved a commensurate punishment, and said he would sentence the cardinal on March 13.
Cardinal Pell, 77, technically faces up to 50 years in prison for crimes that include sexual penetration of a minor. One of the two victims said Cardinal Pell abused him in the sacristy of St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Melbourne, soon after Cardinal Pell was named that city’s archbishop.
“He did it,” Judge Kidd said of Cardinal Pell. “He engaged in some shocking conduct against two boys, and he had the capacity to reason and did it in such brazen circumstances that he obviously felt some degree of impunity.”
The case coincides with a change in the Catholic Church’s approach to clerical abuse, and the cardinal will be sentenced just days after Pope Francis concluded a summit of church leaders in which he promised that abusers would meet “the wrath of God.”
A Vatican spokesman said on Wednesday that the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the Vatican’s doctrinal watchdog that also handles sexual abuse cases, would conduct a canonical investigation into the charges against Cardinal Pell. That, in turn, could lead to a church trial.
This month, the pope defrocked Theodore E. McCarrick, a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington, after a canonical trial found him guilty of sexually abusing minors and adult seminarians. He was the first person who had held such high rank in the Catholic Church to be removed from the priesthood because of the sexual abuse scandals of recent years.
Last October, Cardinal Pell resigned as a member of the Council of Cardinals, the nine-member group he had named as his advisers. On Wednesday, the Vatican’s spokesman, Alessandro Gisotti, said that Cardinal Pell was no longer Prefect of the Secretariat for the Economy, a powerful post he had held since February 2014.
The lawyers for Cardinal Pell on Wednesday dropped their application for bail and said they would appeal the conviction after his sentence was delivered. Unusually, the cardinal was not previously remanded to jail after his conviction because he recently underwent knee replacement surgery.
“Despite the unprecedented media coverage, Cardinal Pell has always and continues to maintain his innocence,” the defense lawyer Paul Galbally said in a statement. “Like any person he has the right to pursue his legal rights and will do so.”
In court on Wednesday, Robert Richter, another defense lawyer, argued that the cardinal’s sentence should be mitigated because at the time of the offenses, he had no special relationship or duty of care to the children he abused after Sunday Mass.
But Judge Kidd said that the cardinal’s actions absolutely involved “a breach of trust,” which began the moment the boys’ parents dropped their children at the church that morning. “Every single member of the church” had a responsibility to the boys, he said.
Mr. Richter also produced a list of character references, that, he said, showed the cardinal to be a kind and generous man with a “great deal of compassion.” Among the references was a letter written by John Howard, a former prime minister of Australia.
The prosecution produced two victims’ statements from the main complainant in the case and from the father of the second boy, who died in 2014.
The prosecutor Mark Gibson called the abuse “humiliating and degrading toward each boy and gave rise to stress.”
Cardinal Pell is charged with four counts of an indecent act, and one act of sexual penetration with a minor, which Mr. Gibson said carried maximum terms of 10 years each.
Given his age and the slim chance of reoffending, experts said, it was unlikely he would receive the maximum penalty.
In a rare display of emotion at one point in the hearing, Cardinal Pell was seen removing his glasses and rubbing his eyes. He remained with his eyes closed for a few moments, silently nodding his head.
As he left the courtroom in police custody, Cardinal Pell bowed to Judge Kidd.
Brianna was never so compelling as when she cracked Jamie right in the face.
Her rape story line may never escape the shadow of the show’s reliance on sexual violence. That said, her early days at Fraser’s Ridge felt more like the beginning of a process than a bandage on a wound, suggesting “Outlander” was trying to make Brianna a full character at the center of this story, however belatedly. And this episode, she unleashes on Jamie and Ian in one of the more painful family scenes since the Fraser reunion.
It is part of a shift in Brianna’s arc. She has moved from dull horror to burning anger, confessing to Jamie that she dreams of murdering her rapist. Whatever that suggests for the long term, in the short term it’s clear that she is trying to come to terms with what happened. She declines to terminate the pregnancy on the slim chance it could be Roger’s, and yet her nightmares about Bonnet get worse.
But this family feud is also comeuppance for Jamie. And that’s rare enough to feel important.
Early in this episode, Jamie goes from “It’s not your fault, Brianna” to devil’s advocate on a dime, so he can goad her into attacking him. Then he pins her in a weirdly loaded sleeper hold and points out that she’s powerless to stop him from killing her. You know, to make her feel better. (The actual heart-to-heart that follows is honest and earnest, but it’s hard to forget that Jamie ran out of patience so fast that a father-daughter half-nelson seemed more expedient than a little more reassurance.)
It seems destined to come back and bite him — his confidence the sort that implodes. But on “Outlander,” Jamie is the hero, and he doesn’t tend to face a lot of pushback from characters he respects. Murtagh is still coming over for dinner without a word about how Jamie plans to handle his pledge to the Governor. So the most remarkable thing about this episode is that after Brianna and Claire find out Jamie and Ian dealt some secret violence to Roger, they get mad at Jamie — and stay mad.
Honestly, when Brianna castigates him, it is such a shock that it seems to shake the whole story for a moment. Her anger is the fury of someone deeply wronged — and that kind of anger is so rarely directed at Jamie that he seems to short out for a moment, struggling to comprehend the idea that he can’t immediately fix things. It unbalances him so much that in his confusion about the specifics of that night, he falls back on some views that sound distinctly 18th century: “You said he raped you of your virtue! I nearly killed a man. And to think, I was defending your honor!”
It shouldn’t be a surprise that things deteriorate for him — Claire is furious at his lies, Brianna has some withering things to say about how they handled Roger, and Bonnet’s name shatters the last of the family peace. But “Outlander” doesn’t often make him face the music like this. “You do not get to be more angry than me,” Brianna snaps at her father, and it’s almost surreal how unsettled he is to hear it.
It’s the sort of fight that one hopes will be hard to resolve. Jamie says he is sorry, but the meat of his apology is a promise to get Roger back. It’s honorable enough, if self-serving. But it splits the family because pregnant Brianna can’t make the ride. And Claire is desperate to stay until Brianna makes no bones about how little she trusts the men. On top of her grief over leaving her daughter again, Claire is noticeably fed up with Jamie, who has some apologies left to make.
But Jamie’s parting words to Murtagh are an order to find Bonnet. He’s planning to do the same thing again — without asking Brianna what she wants, again. Fundamentally, then, he has learned nothing.
It will be very interesting to see what those consequences are. Things were a little charmed for Jamie this season: His marriage thrived, settling came easy, friends unerringly found him, and they flew under political radars. Now things are getting sticky, and the story is holding him to account. May it be as messy as it promises to be.
Other Gossip:
• Claire and Brianna reminiscing about things they miss was a sweet moment for them. (Though, in a show that tries to deal with sexual politics, it’s odd that there’s a bigger pang for peanut butter than say, basic rights.)
• “You will not forget, but time will let you heal.” This is an important concept for Brianna right now. Unfortunate that this seems more about Jamie’s hard-earned wisdom than about Brianna’s trauma.
• “My father would never have said the things you said to me. He was a good man.” Poignant and insightful, Brianna!
• “… You’re nothing but a savage.” Nope, revoked.
• Having Ian mention the Mohawk are “fierce, but honorable” and that “they adopt folk into their tribe” does not actually make up for a subplot full of nameless Mohawk slavers being cruel to their captives. “Outlander” has not done very much to fight or reexamine racist stereotypes of Native Americans this season, and this is not helping.
• Murtagh making a beeline outside at the start of the family breakdown is the most relatable thing that has ever happened on this show.
• Are they in a position to ask favors from Aunt Jocasta? (And Brianna, whose college roommate is a black woman, is willing to stay on a plantation? Awkward.)
• The cliffhanger of whether Roger vanished into the future feels suspenseful only if you wanted him to stick around. Bold assumption.
VATICAN CITY — In parts of the vast Catholic world, some bishops view clerical sexual abuse as more of a sin than a crime. Others attribute it to homosexuality or question that it exists at all. Where Catholics are a minority, as in the Middle East, reporting a pedophile priest to the civil authorities is tantamount to sentencing him to death.
As Pope Francis convenes church leaders for a meeting at the Vatican starting on Thursday to address the scourge of clerical sexual abuse, victims’ advocates are demanding urgent and uniform church laws to impose zero tolerance for priests who abuse minors and for the bishops who cover up for them, regardless of the culture in which they operate.
But Vatican officials say such a demand reflects a misconception that change in a global and ancient institution can be made with the wave of a papal wand.
The diversity of legal and cultural barriers to identifying abusers and assisting victims, as well as entrenched denial, makes putting in place one world standard virtually impossible, they say.
[Pope Francis opens a meeting devoted to the issue of clerical sexual abuse: “We hear the cry of the little ones asking for justice.”]
Before the conference, The New York Times interviewed bishops and priests on four continents, and their views varied widely on the urgency, extent and very existence of sexual abuse of children and minors among priests — a problem that by now has been painstakingly documented in many parts of the globe.
“It is not so simple,” said the Rev. Hans Zollner, an organizer of the meeting, member of the Vatican’s child-protection commission and president of the Center for Child Protection of the Pontifical Gregorian University.
Vatican leaders have worked for weeks to tamp down expectations of a sudden revolution in the sprawling bureaucracy governing the church.
The conference instead will amount to a kind of four-day crash course to instruct church leaders on how to handle abuse cases with responsibility, accountability and transparency, and to convince some that the problem exists at all.
That has hardly appeased survivors of abuse and others in the church who call the arguments against more decisive action a cop-out.
“They are saying there are all these bishops who don’t understand sexual abuse, which is stunning!” said Peter Isely, an American abuse survivor and leader of Ending Clergy Abuse, an advocacy group for survivors of clerical child abuse.
“How do you get to be a bishop if you have to be given an education about the rape of a child?” he said, after he met on Wednesday with Father Zollner and the prelates organizing the conference. He was furious that Pope Francis himself did not show up.
“The only way to solve this is at the top,” Mr. Isely said. “He can do it with the stroke of a pen.”
Father Zollner said he understood the anguished call from victims and advocates for action. But while the Vatican is a monarchy, it is not monolithic and has “as diverse backgrounds as you can imagine in humanity,” he said.
“If you think that by the pope declaring that these are guidelines you have solved the problem, actually I think that you may run the risk of being very much disappointed,” Father Zollner said in an interview in his office in Rome.
The pope has already provided the church with zero-tolerance laws, he argued, adding that if Francis introduced new norms prematurely, he would risk eroding papal authority, because they had a good chance of being ignored.
When the pope emphasized change starting at the bottom, Father Zollner said, he was not shirking responsibility, but making the only choice available, because that was where the change needed to happen.
Francis, he said, will use the meeting to press reluctant bishops’ conferences in the developing world, however belatedly, to adopt guidelines for the safeguarding of minors that already exist in countries that have far more experience in confronting the problem.
Some church leaders interviewed by The Times insisted that the problem did not exist in their part of the world and that elsewhere it was being drummed up or overstated by news media with an anti-church agenda.
In many places, particularly in Africa, India and other parts of the developing world, fighting abuse is still not a priority.
In the global South, many experts point out, clerical sexual abuse is often believed to be the product of homosexuality, a view held also by conservative critics of Pope Francis in the United States and the Vatican.
Across the world, “the situation is really different,” said the Rev. Federico Lombardi, the moderator for the conference and the Vatican’s former spokesman, describing the range of cases and cultures the church must address.
“You take a archbishop of Bangui,” in the war-torn Central African Republic, he said. “It’s a little different from an American bishop. He goes out of the door and he’s not sure he will come back alive an hour later. I’m not sure he is going to sit down and write the guidelines and procedures and to nominate his delegate on abuse.”
That is not true all over Africa, however.
Since 2003, 35 cases of abuse by priests have been reported to the church in South Africa, which in October threw out three priests for sexually abusing children.
The Rev. Lazarus Anondee, secretary general of the Catholic bishops’ conference in Ghana, also acknowledged that when it comes to sexual abuse by clergy, “communities see us as people with power and with power comes the tendency to exploit others.”
While he had not dealt with a case, he said he was working on a new child protection policy to ensure that abuse would “be handled by the country’s law enforcement.”
But that remedy was not an option in some countries in the Middle East.
Bishop Paul Hinder, the leader of the Apostolic Vicariate of Southern Arabia, which includes the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, said his bishops’ conference once discussed the complexities of reporting on an abusive priest in a country likely to impose the death penalty.
“I would be reluctant to expose a man even if he is guilty,” he said.
He added that given that most of his flock were migrants from other countries, “I would rather prefer to send them back and to say, ‘You have to face justice by your own people back home.’”
Even back home, justice is not always delivered. Many of Bishop Hinder’s flock migrated from India, which has fallen far short of the zero-tolerance standards of the West.
For instance, the Rev. Joseph Palanivel Jeyapaul was reinstated to active ministry by a diocese in India even after returning from the United States, where he spent time in prison for molesting two 14-year-old girls while serving at a parish in Minnesota.
The Philippines, the home of Thursday’s first keynote speaker, Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle, considered a potential next pope, is resistant to zero tolerance for abusive priests, according to the advocacy group BishopAccountability.org.
Cardinal Tagle said in 2012 that some clerics who were given a second chance “turned out to be very good priests” while others “failed miserably.”
Father Zollner, who has visited more than 60 countries, was clearly frustrated with bishops who insisted the problem didn’t exist.
“It is even more surprising if you listen to that from people who should know better because they have cases,” he said. “And if you don’t have cases now,” he said, it’s “because people haven’t started to speak about it.”
Even in Europe, enlightenment on the issue has not dawned uniformly.
Ireland has become a standard-bearer in advocating for victims, in part because abuse so thoroughly devastated the church.
That is not the case with Italy, which the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child criticized this month for its lack of investigations into “numerous cases” of clerical abuse of children.
In Spain, Cardinal Juan José Omella, the archbishop of Barcelona, said he suspected that a lack of maturity and preparation led abusive priests to “fall into the temptation of sexual impulses.” He had never had a sex abuse case in his 22 years as a bishop, he said.
In Poland in 2012, Archbishop Jozef Michalik, a former president of the Polish Bishops’ Conference, blamed abuse by clergy on politicians, divorced parents and feminists — as well as children who lured priests.
Other Polish bishops subsequently rejected those remarks.
On Wednesday morning, Marek Lisinski, 50, from Poland, who was molested when he was 13 by a priest who remains in ministry, met the pope and hand delivered a report on abuse in Poland.
“We clearly think something can be done, and we are waiting for specific actions,” he said.
Bishop Oswaldo Escobar, of Chalatenango in El Salvador, said he believed pedophilia was predominantly an Anglo-Saxon phenomenon, whereas Latin American priests tended to sin with adult women.
“They seem to have very conservative structures,” he said of the Anglo-Saxon countries. “More things can be hidden.”
Luciano Bergamin, a bishop in Rio de Janeiro, conceded that the issue “probably exists,” but said it was motivated by a profit-driven and “defamatory campaign against the church.”
Some other Brazilian bishops, though, were hoping Francis, and the meeting in Rome, would get them up to speed.
“Having common instructions is helpful,” said Bishop Flávio Giovenale of Cruzeiro do Sul in Acre. “Because a lot of people are lost, don’t know what to do.”
Good Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today.
_____________________
• A new fight over the Affordable Care Act broke out on Tuesday, as Democrats denounced the Trump administration for asking a federal appeals court to invalidate it. The surprise decision, which could leave 21 million people without health insurance if the court agrees, gave Democrats a chance to move past impeachment and discuss kitchen-table issues like health care.
• The most enduring legacy of Robert S. Mueller’s investigation may be his decision not to take action on President Trump’s norm-shattering interventions in the law enforcement system. Future presidents may feel entitled to take similar actions.
• As the Trump administration celebrates Mr. Mueller’s finding that the president did not conspire with Russia, a darker theme is emerging: a message that Mr. Trump’s perceived enemies will pay.
• Scientists at the Interior Department spent years examining the threat that pesticides present to hundreds of endangered species. That work was pushed aside after David Bernhardt, now President Trump’s nominee to lead the department, intervened.
• Senator Kamala Harris of California announced her campaign’s first policy rollout: a plan to heavily invest federal money in teacher pay.
• A donor database assembled by Ms. Harris has worked powerfully for her fellow Democrats. She is now using it for her own presidential run, which could put her in the best position to challenge Beto O’Rourke and Bernie Sanders on small-dollar donations.
• The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal, after hours of discussion in which Republicans painted its Democratic supporters as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists.
• The Air Force of three decades ago was a challenging place for women. Sexual harassment, and worse, was rampant. So when a male superior officer raped Martha McSally, a young servicewoman who is now a senator, it wasn’t surprising that she did not report it.
• House Democrats responded bluntly to a letter from Representative Rashida Tlaib, the freshman firebrand, seeking an inquiry into impeaching President Trump. “We’re not focused on impeachment,” said one.
• Nearly a year after imposing stiff tariffs on foreign metals, the United States is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. Both have said no.
• Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Tuesday that he regretted his role in the 1991 hearings over Anita Hill’s sexual harassment allegations against Clarence Thomas, who became a Supreme Court justice. That episode could be a vulnerability if Mr. Biden runs for president.
• A divided Supreme Court returned to the subject of partisan gerrymandering, considering whether drawing election maps to help the party in power ever violates the Constitution. (Here’s an explainer, if you’re confused about what gerrymandering is.)
• Long before the grounding of the 737 Max, the Federal Aviation Administration faced scrutiny over its practice of letting manufacturers help certify their own planes. F.A.A. employees viewed their management as “having too close a relationship with Boeing officials,” a government inquiry found years ago.
_____________________
Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.
Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.
Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.
The latest installment in the “Jurassic Park” franchise gets its television debut. And four drag queens help a bride who’s in need in a new TLC special.
JURASSIC WORLD: FALLEN KINGDOM (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on streaming platforms. As is the case with almost every film franchise, the “Jurassic Park” sequels haven’t found the same success as the original 1993 movie. This fifth iteration was narrowly saved by mixed reviews: Variety said it plays like a 1970s “disaster movie run amok.” Vulture said the movie is “chasing its own tail.” And A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times that it “is in most respects a dumber, less ambitious movie than its immediate predecessor, and also, for just that reason, a little bit more fun.” Set three years after 2015’s “Jurassic World,” the film follows Claire (Bryce Dallas Howard), an activist, and Owen (Chris Pratt), an animal-behavior specialist, as they try to rescue dinosaurs from a fictional island before it erupts. Once they arrive and track down the creatures, they realize they have been duped by bad guys who have sinister plans for the reptiles.
MICHAEL JACKSON: THE JURY SPEAKS 9 p.m. on Oxygen. Questions about Michael Jackson’s alleged pedophilia have been dominating the headlines after the HBO documentary “Leaving Neverland” debuted last Sunday. But accusations surfaced many years before the documentary, which focused on two men who were coming forward with abuse allegations against the pop star for the first time. In 2003, Jackson was accused of molesting a 13-year-old boy at his Neverland Valley ranch; two years later, he was acquitted of all charges. In “The Jury Speaks,” part of a true crime series that aired in 2017, five members of the jury from the trial explain why they found Jackson innocent and Thomas Mesereau, Jackson’s lead lawyer at the time, details how he won the case.
DRAG ME DOWN THE AISLE 9 p.m. on TLC. In this new wedding special, four drag queens — Alexis Michelle, Bebe Zahara Benet, Thorgy Thor and Jujubee — come to the rescue as Emily, a bride-to-be, prepares for her big day. Struggling with a tight budget and body image issues, Emily second-guesses her dress and worries about the venue. Over the course of three weeks, the queens, all of whom are former contestants on “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” give Emily a makeover, help her plan a fantasy wedding reception and encourage her to find her “inner queen.”
SUBURBIA (1984) stream on Amazon or Hulu; rent on Amazon. Penelope Spheeris (“The Little Rascals,” “Wayne’s World”) directed this coming-of-age drama about a pack of young Los Angeles runaways (among them: Chris Pedersen, Bill Coyne and Jennifer Clay) who live in a rundown sanctuary of sorts off Interstate 605. Together they keep each other safe and steer clear of a local vigilante group that blames them for all of the neighborhood’s problems. In his review for The Times, Vincent Canby applauded the cast’s performances and called the movie cleareyed and compassionate.
In The Edit, a New York Times newsletter for college students and recent graduates, we asked for stories about mental health on campus. The responses below have been edited and condensed.
I am divorced, and I live with my parents. I moved home to Minnesota from Texas and decided to continue pursuing my bachelor’s in psychology that I had abandoned after having started school in the fall of 2005. I have been attending classes part time while working full time to keep my health insurance since the summer of 2016.
I am on track to graduate next fall. All the while, I have been fighting with chronic pain from a horseback-riding accident and managing depression. Some days I have purpose and a drive to succeed, and other days I just want to give up. If you really want something in this life, you have to find that resilience to pursue it and just keep going.

As a result of growing up in a broken and traumatic home, I began experiencing severe anxiety and depression in middle school. While it followed me throughout high school and college, I channeled my struggle with mental illness into the founding of a social enterprise, LEAD (Let’s Empower, Advocate and Do), that provides mental health training and curriculum to schools, camps and youth-serving organizations across the country.
I am a senior undergraduate student and was recently named the third-best student entrepreneur in the country in the Entrepreneurs’ Organization Global Student Entrepreneurship Awards.

I have struggled with clinical depression and anxiety since my sophomore year of high school. I am a sophomore in college, and I am very passionate about mental health and working to improve it.
I read a lot of self-help books in high school, but most were written by a 50-year-old psychologist who knows what they’re talking about in a clinical sense, but not how it actually feels to be 16 and struggling with suicidal thoughts and panic attacks. Because of this, I decided to write a short book with practical advice for improving your outlook on the world and how to incorporate caring for your mental health into your routine through mindfulness, exercise, limited phone time and leaving room for what brings you joy in life.
I have conducted a workshop at my high school on improving mental health and also do my best to bring that conversation to Wake Forest.
My main philosophy is about learning how to make Tuesday your favorite day of the week, because if you’re always waiting for the weekend or Christmas or your graduation, you are deciding that your happiness is circumstantial, and that therefore you don’t control it, your environment does. However, if you decide that amid the boring, mundane, stressful and sometimes heartbreaking realities of life, that you are going to focus on what is good and build your life around that instead, you are taking back the control that you deserve over your own happiness.
I am in my second semester of graduate school, studying for my master’s in public administration, with a focus in gender-based violence. Within my first weeks of being here I witnessed a homeless woman being raped outside of my apartment and obviously called 911.
This in many ways was triggering to me, and I went into my first semester of grad school suffering from pretty severe post-traumatic stress disorder, from both this and a previous incident. This is all happening as the Kavanaugh hearings are happening, and I am taking my first gender-based violence class of my program. As I was taking the bus to and from work every day, I was entirely dissociative.
I likely could not tell you what happened my entire first month of grad school, that’s how detached I was from reality at that time. Luckily, I took the day off for Rosh Hashana and went to the market, and I was able to snap back into reality in a lot of ways. That day I made an appointment with my campus’s sexual assault resource center. It was able to get me extensions on assignments, set me up with a therapist and wrote a letter of support for my department allowing me to drop the gender-based violence class and receive a full refund.
I also saw a psychiatrist and was prescribed beta blockers, which have helped bring down my heightened sense of danger wherever I go. This semester, having had time to help heal, I’ve been able to restart my concentration in gender-based violence, which is more important to me now than ever, and I was still able to complete my other two graduate courses last semester and remain a full-time student.
It was so important for me to write you, to emphasize the importance of institutional support. I still struggle sometimes, but I think that without them helping me, I likely would have had no choice but to drop out and move back home.

I always knew that coming to study at another university in a foreign country is tough. You sleep and breathe in English, you learn to embrace flip flops in the classroom. You adapt. And that was part of my plan.
I embrace new opportunities, learn as much as I can, make mistakes, make friends, have first drinks, pull all-nighters. But depression was never part of my plan. I didn’t even know it had a name until everything felt empty.
So, here I was, FaceTiming my mother without the video because I could not let her see my face. My voice sounds fine, telling her I was fine, schoolwork is challenging but manageable — I am applying to summer internships, competition is rough, but it’s fine. And everything was fine. Except me.
The first time I had a counseling session was weird. It felt weird that I was living my dream, studying in the United States, having supportive family and friends, and yet I was sitting in that chair. I learned that sometimes there was no definite reason for the way I felt. But at least, when I acknowledged that I was not mentally healthy, it was the beginning of my healing process.
Every day I try to make healthier choices and balance all aspects of my life. I go to counseling. I practice mindfulness. I talk to my support network. The chemicals in my brain sometimes act up, but I know I just need to be extra patient that day.
If there is a mental health group on your campus that could provide support, definitely check it out. Every single time you feel that you are trapped in your head, remember that every little step to make yourself feel better is a step, as long as you don’t stop.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
Britain’s Brexit plan meets a second historic defeat, the E.U. grounds all Boeing 737 Max 8s, and Cardinal George Pell is sentenced to six years in prison. Here’s the latest: 
The vote was 391 to 242. Prime Minister Theresa’s May’s plan for withdrawal from the E.U. was rejected a second time. Britain is now fast drifting toward a so-called no-deal Brexit on March 29, a potential disaster.
Mrs. May had hoped to win over hard-line Brexiteers in her own party with last-minute concessions from the E.U. 
What next? Lawmakers will now pivot to another crucial vote today on whether to leave the E.U. without a deal. 
If, as widely expected, Parliament votes against a no-deal Brexit, lawmakers will then vote Thursday on whether to postpone Britain’s withdrawal. But Mrs. May warned that the E.U., when it meets on March 21 to consider and approve any such request, will want assurances that a delay would go to good use. And the E.U. said after the vote on Tuesday that the time for negotiations had ended. 
Mrs. May could hold a third vote on her plan. But her gamble that the impending March 29 deadline would eventually force lawmakers to relent and accept her plan is looking more like a losing one. 
Nearly half of the 737 Max 8 aircraft in the world have been pulled from use, though not in the U.S. or Canada (with the exception of one Canadian airline, Sunwing).
Two days after 157 people were killed on a Boeing 737 Max 8 flight from Ethiopia to Kenya, E.U. officials grounded all of the planes traveling in and out of its member countries. That followed similar moves by aviation regulators in China, Indonesia, Singapore and Australia.
The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said it would examine the data from the crash but added it was too early to determine the cause. And it cautioned against making comparisons to an October crash in Indonesia involving a Lion Air Max 8.
Three generations of an Indian-Canadian family were among those who died in the Sunday crash, leaving the South Asian community in Brampton, Ontario, in deep shock. “I have lost everyone,” said Manant Vaidya, whose parents, sister, brother-in-law and two teenage nieces died.
We’ll continue to bring you live updates here.
Another angle: The crash of Flight 302 has raised doubts about Ethiopian Airlines’ campaign to become Africa’s leading carrier. It has a highly regarded and competitive aviation academy, from which the pilot, Yared Getachew, graduated. He was the airline’s youngest captain, though he had a decade with the carrier.
George Pell, an Australian cardinal who was the Vatican’s chief financial officer and an adviser to Pope Francis, was sentenced to six years in prison for molesting two boys after a Sunday Mass in 1996.
He faced up to 50 years in prison, but the lighter sentence came after pleas from his supporters, including a former prime minister, John Howard.
Here’s how other countries have punished abusive priests. 
Reminder: The cardinal was convicted of abuse in December, making him the highest-ranking Catholic clergyman to be found guilty of sexually abusing minors. But his guilty verdict was unsealed only two weeks ago, after a court lifted a gag order that kept the decision out of the public eye for months.
Impact: The case has deepened distrust and anger among Catholics in Australia, pushing the country’s once robust church into a drastic decline. 
Seeking to transform its image after an emissions scandal, Volkswagen announced that it would build 22 million electric cars through 2028.
Noting that the company was responsible for 1 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, its chief executive, Herbert Diess, also announced that it would strive to be carbon neutral by 2050. 
The automaker — which narrowly beat out Toyota as the world’s largest vehicle manufacturer in 2018 — sells only a small number of electric cars, and it’s taking a major risk. Sales of such vehicles are growing fast but still account for only a sliver of the new car market. 
Related: Established automakers are realizing that a shift to battery power also requires them to retool their sales machinery. 
Venezuela: While power was restored to much of Venezuela after a multiday blackout, the government began investigating Juan Guaído, the leader of the opposition, and charged a prominent journalist with inciting violence, claiming they had played a role in the supposed sabotage of the country’s electrical system. 
U.S. immigration: The director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, above last June, told staff members that the international division, which has operations in more than 20 countries, would close down by the end of the year, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting. The idea is to shift resources to address a backlog in asylum applications.
Google: Alphabet’s board of directors agreed to pay Amit Singhal, a former top executive at the search giant, as much as $45 million when he resigned in 2016 after being accused of groping an employee. His payment was revealed in a shareholder lawsuit filed this week that accuses Alphabet of shirking its responsibilities and paying executives instead of firing them for just cause.
Costa Rica: The tiny Central American nation wants to wean itself from fossil fuels by 2050 under a broad decarbonization plan that could serve as a model for other countries. Its chief evangelist is an urban planner, Claudia Dobles, who also happens to be the nation’s first lady.
Nissan-Renault: The Japanese and French carmakers vowed to preserve their alliance and move past the removal of their former chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, whose arrest cast doubt on the future of the auto industry’s most successful partnership. 
Britain: The police said they were investigating a claim that a group calling itself the I.R.A., the initials for the Irish Republican Army, was behind the explosive packages sent around London and Scotland last week.
College admissions scandal: U.S. prosecutors charged dozens of people, including Hollywood actresses and top college coaches, in a large-scale admissions bribery scandal known as Operation Varsity Blues.
How to disappear: An employee at a Bitcoin security company set out to make himself disappear from the all-seeing eyes of the American corporate world and the government, without having to give up internet access. This is how he achieved it, in 15 (not so easy) steps.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: With a little forethought, marinated short ribs can be part of a balanced weeknight rice bowl.
Building a successful team is not just about finding the right people but also about fostering a strong sense of teamwork.
Women and performers share tips on how to stay safe on the dance floor.
The otherwise invisible special counsel investigation takes regular public shape inside the E. Barrett Prettyman Courthouse in Washington, where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, will appear at his final sentencing hearing today.
It is the same building where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has used a grand jury to return indictments.
Your Back Story writer has visited the building often, over months of covering hearings involving Mueller targets, including Mr. Manafort, Roger Stone and Michael Flynn.
A little over half a mile from F.B.I. headquarters, the courthouse has a bland limestone exterior, tall windows, long hallways and artificial lighting, which combine to create a sterile aura of law and order. Outside, protesters and camera crews have jostled as Trump associates enter and exit through revolving doors familiar to cable news junkies.
Today, guests will crowd into wooden pews as Mr. Manafort waits in a tiled holding room just off Judge Amy Berman Jackson’s chambers. He will enter the courtroom, perhaps for the last time, in a suit and tie, a special request granted by Judge Jackson.
Noah Weiland, from our Washington bureau, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
PINEVILLE, La. — A 71-year-old Louisiana man has been charged with 100 counts of first-degree rape over allegations of criminal sexual conduct involving minors.
The Rapides Parish Sheriff's Office tells news outlets the allegations against Harvey Joseph Fountain date to the 1970s.
The sheriff's office says deputies received a tip on April 1 that Fountain was sexually involved with juveniles, and an investigation found evidence supporting the allegations.
Fountain was arrested on 50 counts of first-degree rape on April 9. Days later, additional victims were identified -- the sheriff's office isn't saying how many -- and 50 more counts were added.
Deputies say the investigation is ongoing and more arrests are possible. It's unclear if Fountain has a lawyer.
Who is Ivo van Hove and why are theatergoers saying such (thrilling) (furious) (mystified) things about him? How did the unassuming Belgian director, who since 2001 has made the theater company Toneelgroep Amsterdam his base of operations, turn into the most important auteur on the international stage circuit — and now a three-time Broadway director?
With Mr. van Hove’s divisive production of “Network” earning more than $1 million a week on Broadway — having Bryan Cranston as your star doesn’t hurt — The New York Times gathered three writers who have followed his path for nearly two decades.
In this edited conversation, Ben Brantley, co-chief theater critic for The Times, and the critics Elisabeth Vincentelli and Jason Zinoman aim to make sense of Mr. van Hove’s ascent, from Off Broadway to a Tony Award, David Bowie to “All About Eve.” With a Broadway revival of “West Side Story” looming on the 60-year-old director’s docket, the theater editor, Scott Heller, kept them from rumbling.
[Read about seven other adventurous directors.]
SCOTT HELLER  How rare it is to be meeting for a three-way debate about … a theater director?
JASON ZINOMAN  A pleasure, really. And a testament to the success of Ivo van Hove.
BEN BRANTLEY  And who would have thought, when he first started his explosive demolitions of hallowed classics at New York Theater Workshop in the late 1990s, that he would become a mainstream force.
ZINOMAN I was trying to think (and maybe you can help me) of another artist who has transitioned from experimental theater to the red-hot center of Broadway with as much success. Richard Foreman was on Broadway, I believe, twice. Peter Brook has a longer résumé but hasn’t been on Broadway since 1984.
HELLER Julie Taymor?
ELISABETH VINCENTELLI The only artists with this kind of crossover success are musicians or visual artists. Someone like Philip Glass, for instance. But American theater is different: the entry gate to the mainstream is guarded ferociously.
BRANTLEY And when you think of how many American avant-gardists (Peter Sellars, Robert Wilson) have had to go to Europe to experience popular acclaim, it’s all the more astonishing. His 2015 “View From the Bridge,” which turned Arthur Miller’s kitchen-sink drama into majestic tragedy, was the turning point, I suppose.
HELLER Let’s talk about the mainstream. Has van Hove tailored his aesthetic for mass consumption, or are theater audiences more primed than ever for what he has to offer? And, even before that, try to capture for us why, at his best, he excites each of you — and I promise, we’ll get to why he frustrates, too!
VINCENTELLI I’ve seen almost all his New York shows since “A Streetcar Named Desire” in 1999, and I don’t feel his aesthetic has changed much, if at all. What has changed is the American audience’s willingness to enter his world. He’s a brilliant director of visuals, which puts him in sync with our incredibly visual culture.
BRANTLEY Agreed, Elisabeth. And the fact that he introduced video cameras into his mise en scène so early as a means of seeing, literally, different faces (and facets) of his characters certainly jibes with a screen-dominated moment in culture.
ZINOMAN He creates a kind of chaos onstage, with all the points of view. You often never know where to look.
VINCENTELLI Plenty of Broadway shows are actually very high-tech, but their use of technology tends to be kept behind the scenes. Van Hove brings the artifice to the forefront.
BRANTLEY And he does that with acting itself, making us aware of the various tricks and tropes performers use and how they manipulate that ultimate tool of acting, the human body.
HELLER You’ve all written about video as a stage tool going back decades — the Wooster Group and beyond. The same with stylized acting styles. What happens when van Hove applies these techniques to familiar texts — Shakespeare? A novel like “The Fountainhead”? And movies — so many, many movies, re-enacted onstage?
BRANTLEY I’m glad you mentioned the Wooster Group, because they really pioneered the multicamera, multi-mic art of disorientation. Van Hove uses these things specifically to illuminate the text, I think, sometimes in rather literal-minded ways. But he also — in two of his epic examinations of corrupting tyranny, “Kings of War” and “The Damned” — allows us to see behind the scenes of the corridors of power, so we’re always aware of several levels of action happening at once.
ZINOMAN I no longer think van Hove adjusts his techniques to fit or illuminate the text so much as he shoehorns the material into his particular aesthetic. He’s become a rigid if often stunning stylist, whose longtime collaboration with the designer Jan Versweyveld is his most important partnership. One hallmark is shooting a scene on the street that is then projected in the theater. It invariably get a laugh when the audience sees New York pedestrians acting baffled by actors performing near hot dog carts. It’s the kind of cheap laugh David Letterman would get when he took cameras on the street. But the backdrop is Nazi Germany in “The Damned” and a media hellscape in “Network.” His use of media here is jarringly at odds with the content in a way I am not sure he is in control of.
BRANTLEY I do think one of his concerns is to erase borders and tear down walls, not just to rattle us with avant-garde self-consciousness, but to suggest our own kinship with the people onstage. He did this more effectively in “The Damned,” I thought, by beginning with the cast in civvies and letting the characters’ preparation for the big party that begins the show become our entry point into the story.
ZINOMAN While I think of him as more interested in form than content, he seems right now very focused on politics.
VINCENTELLI The “one size fits all” accusation isn’t entirely off-base. (It reminds me of accusations lobbed at Robert Wilson, also not off-base.) What concerns me a bit is the reliance on multimedia these days, which wasn’t always the case in van Hove’s earlier shows. I wonder if it has something to do with an overuse of films as source material. I wish he’d go back to the classics!
BRANTLEY But he’s less a one-trick pony than his reputation would have it. Remember his viscerally immediate, relatively technology-free adaptation of Bergman’s “Scenes From a Marriage” a few years ago? He cast three different sets of performers as the same couple at different ages, and it universalized our (or at least my) identification with them. I think, oddly enough for a modernist, he’s a universalist.
VINCENTELLI All the talk about multimedia obscures his amazing work with actors. The performances he gets from them can be stunning. I remember them more than the video gewgaws.
HELLER Give me an example.
VINCENTELLI Toneelgroep’s Hans Kesting, strikingly physical as Richard III (“Kings of War”) and Mark Antony (“Roman Tragedies”).
BRANTLEY How about Saoirse Ronan’s malevolent serving girl in “The Crucible”? Or Elizabeth Marvel’s flayed, viscera-exposing performances in “A Streetcar Named Desire” and “The Little Foxes”?
ZINOMAN I’m not much of a believer that van Hove is great for actors. But Ben reminds me of another admirable trait: his gutsy conceptual flourishes. In “The Crucible” he dared to suggest that the witches might in fact be real. I had never seen this before. I didn’t find the execution of this idea to have enough conviction to completely work, but respect the attempt.
VINCENTELLI It’s hard to overestimate the impact his European upbringing has on his work on American and British classics, like “The Crucible.” He doesn’t come to them with the same baggage. This does not always entirely pan out, but when it does, the results are illuminating — “View From the Bridge” is a perfect example.
HELLER Let’s circle back to Jason’s points about van Hove’s politics. “Network” ends with a controversial flourish, in which we watch footage of presidents being inaugurated since the 1970s, culminating with Trump. The audience howls. Is this merely playing to the crowd?
BRANTLEY Absolutely. It’s pandering and unnecessary. Many of my problems with “Network” have to do with the source material. What wowed me about the production, though, was Bryan Cranston’s stunning performance as a man made by media — and the way that guy interacted with the onstage cameras, and his own reflected images!
VINCENTELLI I agree with Ben, that was a cheap shot.
HELLER So capture for me how or when van Hove makes richer, more bracing political arguments.
ZINOMAN He doesn’t. “Network” is not an anomaly. The only person who hammers television as much and broadly as the artists behind “Network” is Trump himself. In other hands, some of this would be played as satire, as in the original movie. But van Hove, as far as I can tell, is incapable of a sense of humor. His one mode is epic, grim, relentless tragedy.
BRANTLEY He is a tragedian, first and foremost, though I think we can make room for tragedians in a time when they’re a rare breed among directors. No, he lacks a sense of satire and even of irony, except in a cosmic sense. What I think fascinates him and what often works for me, is the idea of monolithic personalities, damned to suffocate under their own passions (or egos). That was true of Mark Strong’s amazing Eddie Carbone in “View From the Bridge” and the monarchs from “Kings of War.”
VINCENTELLI I don’t think of him as a political director at all. Sometimes I feel he stumbles into it, but that’s not his primary or even secondary mode. What he does best is excavate new readings from plays you thought you knew — subtext from text. For instance, he had Bruce McKenzie play Stanley in “Streetcar,” an actor who’s not the beefy, hypermasculine guy people commonly associate with that character. That was revelatory to me — the shapes masculinity can take.
ZINOMAN I want to go back to the idea that his characters, as Ben puts it, are damned. I agree. And doomed. This unifies much of his work: Everything is inexorable. But there are drawbacks to this, particularly as he works with an increasing diversity of material (next up: “West Side Story”). He seems uninterested in creating suspense or generating surprise, except through visual flourishes.
BRANTLEY For me, one of his most remarkable gifts is his ability to sustain a feeling of suspense (that Götterdämmerung doom) even though you know where you’re headed. And it works with dark, monumental classics like “View” and “The Crucible.” Curiously, his one attempt at Greek tragedy that I’ve seen, an “Antigone” starring Juliette Binoche, was utterly uninvolving.
VINCENTELLI I’m fine with him always working in the same register. Are we complaining that Jerry Zaks always does comedy? He’s brilliant at it. As for gimmickiness — that criticism isn’t aimed at, say, Richard Nelson, whose Apple Family plays are just as gimmicky. But because they are in a familiar naturalistic mode, nobody notices or cares. What van Hove is doing is loosening up, if only a bit, the naturalistic grip on mainstream American stages. That’s a big deal in our world.
ZINOMAN Now that he’s getting to work on the most prominent stages of the commercial theater, I do think his range matters. We agree “View From the Bridge” was wonderful. But is he the right director for “West Side Story”? This question is no longer academic.
HELLER Part of what has gotten him these opportunities is the embrace of critics like the three of you. He has become a name, a brand of sorts, that theater fans follow. Or not. As one commenter to a Times review wrote: “Ivan Van Hooey. Enough. Please. Make him go away.”
VINCENTELLI When you go to “The Damned” and you hear people having animated discussions — pro and con — on the street afterward, there’s something happening that I think is very exciting. People arguing over directorial choices! That is just incredible to me. I’ll forgive “Lazarus,” the Bowie show, just for that.
ZINOMAN I agree with Elisabeth that inspiring heated argument about theater directing is wonderful. But I also think we have a bias for ambition that can make us go easy on van Hove. For instance, let’s take the most provocative decision I have seen him make, the molestation scene in “The Damned.” That was a very young actor, and he lingered in that scene in a way that was meant to make us uncomfortable. To be fair to him, the scene was in the film. But theater is a different medium. And when I watched it live, I didn’t think about the decadence of Nazi Germany or the corruption of that family or any contemporary parallels. The only thing on my mind was that actor: How did they explain this scene to her? Van Hove had already shown us executions, orgies, adult bodies smeared in blood and feathers. Did we need this too? Was it worth it?
BRANTLEY All of your concerns were certainly on my mind when I watched. I think it would require more space than we have to justify that particular choice. But you’re right, it jerked us out of the moment. I, too, found myself wondering how the young actress had been prepared for that moment.
HELLER Is sex in van Hove-world simply part and parcel of the grimness that Jason talked about?
VINCENTELLI I’ve seen women take issue on social media with the way his productions can be physically taxing for actors. But from everything I’ve read, actors love working with him and the process is thorough and methodical. As for what’s onstage, I don’t find his depiction of sexuality grim. It can be brutal, manipulative, yes, but it’s also matter-of-fact in the way it looks at power relationships and how they are expressed through sex.
BRANTLEY I’m also often aware of the loneliness of the characters in his productions, even when they’re locked in carnal embrace. That was part of what was so beautiful to me about his interpretation of “Angels in America” — the hopeful futility of reaching out and touching someone. And I think he just might do well by Eve in the upcoming “All About Eve,” given his stage version of John Cassavetes’s “Opening Night.”
HELLER The productions do keep coming. Beyond his own work, I wonder: Has he influenced other directors, or what we’re all seeing onstage?
VINCENTELLI What he does can be expensive, and American directors with ambitions and ideas are usually short of cash. There is not the same institutional support system as in Europe or Britain.
BRANTLEY But I do think he’s opened doors for directors who take less traditionally naturalistic approaches to theater. After all, the Daniel Fish “Oklahoma!” is Broadway bound. And perhaps there’s a touch of van Hove in its use of merciless simulcast video and the witty contradiction between text and action.
ZINOMAN Success doesn’t just lead to imitation. It expands the realm of the possible for producers.
WASHINGTON — The Air Force said on Friday that it had no plans to open an investigation into Senator Martha McSally’s revelation that she was raped by a senior officer while serving in the Air Force.
In a statement, Ann Stefanek, the chief of media operations, said the Air Force could not begin an inquiry until Ms. McSally agreed to participate in one or new information came to light.
“Given the senator’s desire to not participate in an investigation, the Air Force will remain ready to investigate further if the senator’s desire changes or other information is presented,” Ms. Stefanek said. She said the Air Force “takes every allegation of sexual assault seriously, no matter when the allegation is made.”
In powerful public testimony on Wednesday, Ms. McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, told a Senate hearing room that she had been raped by a superior officer, one of multiple times she was sexually assaulted while she served her country.
In a Congress with a historic number of women, Ms. McSally’s revelation was another example of a female lawmaker coming forward to share a personal story of sexual assault. Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, said in January that she had been raped while she was in college, and had been emotionally and physically abused by her husband. Representative Katie Porter, Democrat of California, has spoken openly of the domestic abuse she said she suffered in her marriage.
But Ms. McSally’s revelation was the latest surfacing of a claim of sexual assault in the military, which has struggled to deal with the issue even as more combat roles have been opened to women.
Ms. McSally did not name the superior officer. Nor did she offer details of the assault. But her bombshell reverberated from Capitol Hill to the Pentagon.
The Air Force condemned “criminal actions” that “violate every part of what it means to be an airman.”
Any attempt by the Air Force to prosecute Ms. McSally’s attacker would now appear to be impossible because of a ruling made by the military’s highest court last month, just two weeks before Ms. McSally disclosed the rape publicly at the hearing on Capitol Hill.
On Feb. 22, the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces threw out the conviction of an Air Force lieutenant colonel who had sexually assaulted a female enlisted subordinate because the case had been brought long after the expiration of the five-year statute of limitations on military rape cases that was still in effect in 2005, when that assault occurred.
While Congress amended the Uniform Code of Military Justice in 2006 to eliminate the statute of limitations on rape cases, the appeals court ruled that the case against the lieutenant colonel was required to have been brought within the statute of limitations in effect at the time. Nothing in the 2006 amendment or its legislative history suggested that Congress intended to make the change to the code apply retroactively, the court wrote.
The net effect: Only rapes that occurred after Congress changed the military law in 2006 do not have a statute of limitations for prosecution. Those that occurred before the change are still subject to the five-year window. Ms. McSally has not said when she was raped. But based on other details she provided — that she confided to people what had happened only later in her career, after she had been in the military for 18 years, which would have been about 2006 — it appears that the assault she disclosed most likely occurred before Congress changed the law.
The Feb. 22 decision in the case against the lieutenant colonel — who was a captain and an F-16 instructor pilot at the time of the assault — and other recent decisions by the same appeals court have resulted in a number of rape cases being overturned or dismissed, said Don Christensen, a retired colonel who was the Air Force’s chief prosecutor before he left the military in 2014.
For a long time, Mr. Christensen said, the accepted understanding was that there was no statute of limitations in military rape cases. But the recent armed forces appeals court rulings have upended that precedent, he said.
“Cases such as Senator McSally’s are now impossible to prosecute, unless they occurred after 2006,” said Mr. Christensen, who is now the president of Protect Our Defenders, a military victims’ rights group.
The Pentagon did not respond to a query about whether it would appeal the decision to the Supreme Court.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Dozens of prominent Australian news outlets and journalists have been ordered to appear in court to answer allegations that they violated a gag order barring coverage of the trial of Cardinal George Pell, a former Vatican official who was convicted in December of molesting children.
Among those summoned to appear in a Melbourne court on April 15 were editors and reporters for Fairfax Media, which owns The Age, The Sydney Morning Herald and The Financial Review, and for Nationwide News, which is owned by News Corp. They could face fines and possibly prison time.
Some of the news outlets themselves were also named in the summons. “I’ve never seen so many media organizations and journalists charged in one hit,” said Jason Bosland, director of the Center for Media and Communications Law at Melbourne Law School.
Chief Judge Peter Kidd, who presided over Cardinal Pell’s trial in the County Court of Victoria, imposed a suppression order on journalists who were covering it, on the grounds that news reports could prejudice a jury in what was then expected to be the second of two trials.
After prosecutors decided in February not to proceed with a second trial, the order was lifted, and Australian news outlets were free to report that the cardinal had been found guilty months earlier. He was sentenced this month to six years in prison.
The summons sheet made public on Tuesday does not specify how the accused journalists and news organizations are alleged to have violated the order.
But when the cardinal was convicted in December — news that was promptly reported overseas and on social media — some of the news outlets published articles saying that an important story was being kept secret from the Australian public. The next day, Judge Kidd held an impromptu hearing in which he called for prosecutors to initiate contempt-of-court proceedings against journalists.
One of the articles, in the tabloid The Telegraph, read in part: “A high-profile Australian with a worldwide reputation has been convicted of an awful crime, but The Daily Telegraph and other Australian media are prohibited from telling you about it.” The headline read, “It’s the Nation’s Biggest Story.”
Other outlets published similarly cryptic articles. The front page of The Herald Sun, a Melbourne paper, bore the headline “CENSORED.”
The world “is reading a very important story that is relevant to Victorians,” read that article, alluding to overseas coverage. That paper’s editor, Damon Johnston, was on the list of those summoned.
To comply with the suppression order, The New York Times published news of Cardinal Pell’s conviction in print only in the United States, and it blocked copies of the edition from being delivered to Australia. It did not report the guilty verdict online until the judge lifted the order in February.
Documents filed on Friday by the director of public prosecutions in the state of Victoria, where the cardinal’s trial was held, asked the state’s Supreme Court to find the journalists and news outlets guilty of breaching the order; interfering with the administration of justice; aiding and abetting international news outlets in violating the order; and “scandalizing the court” by publishing material that could undermine public confidence in the administration of justice.
Justin Quill, a lawyer representing all of the summoned companies and journalists, said he could not comment lest he be held in contempt of court himself, but he said he would “vigorously defend the charges.”
The Nine Network, which owns Fairfax Media, said in a statement that the company “and the named employees deny the allegations.”
Mr. Bosland, of Melbourne Law School, said there was no statutory limit to a prison sentence that a judge could impose for contempt of court. But he said imprisoning journalists was “a very serious matter” and that fines were more likely in this case, unless any of the accused had been found to have violated such orders before. He said fines for contempt of court could range up to about 200,000 Australian dollars, roughly $140,000.
In 2014, a conservative commentator, Derryn Hinch, spent 50 nights in prison after failing to pay a fine incurred for breaching a suppression order. He had been convicted of similar violations in 1987 and 2011.
Last month, The Law Council of Australia called for a review of suppression orders, which they said had failed to keep up with the rapid dissemination of information via the internet.
Suppression orders that ignore the proliferation of social media endanger the public, Arthur Moses, the group’s president, recently told reporters. He said the law needed to adapt to recognize that separating juries from the internet was becoming impossible.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, last month offered federal prosecutors in Manhattan information about possible irregularities within the president’s family business, according to people familiar with the matter.
Mr. Cohen, above, is slated to testify publicly on Capitol Hill next week.
Mr. Cohen, who worked at the Trump Organization for a decade, spoke with the prosecutors about insurance claims the company had filed over the years, the people said. This suggests that the United States Attorney’s Office in Manhattan, known as the Southern District of New York, is scrutinizing the Trump Organization, and it has recently sought to interview executives. 
Meanwhile, Manhattan prosecutors are preparing state criminal charges against Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, in an effort to ensure he will face prison time even if he is pardoned by the president for federal crimes.
_____
2. Robert Kraft — the owner of the New England Patriots, the most successful team in the N.F.L. since he bought it in 1994 and the winner of this year’s Super Bowl — was charged with two counts of soliciting sex from a prostitute, according to the police in Jupiter, Fla.
A series of massage parlors was raided Tuesday as part of a six-month state investigation of prostitution and human trafficking. Mr. Kraft, 77, above, was said to be a customer of a spa called Orchids of Asia.
Detectives in Jupiter said they had video of Mr. Kraft and dozens of other customers involved in sex acts at the Jupiter spa and others in Florida. Mr. Kraft denied that he had engaged in any illegal activity.
_____
3. The R&B singer R. Kelly was charged in Chicago with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse in connection with four victims.
The celebrity lawyer Michael Avenatti said last week that he had obtained a video showing Mr. Kelly having sex with a 14-year-old girl and had given it to prosecutors in Chicago.
On Thursday, two additional women came forward at a news conference in New York, above, organized by their lawyer, Gloria Allred, to accuse Mr. Kelly of sexual abuse and misconduct when they were minors. Mr. Kelly, trailed by accusations of sexual misconduct for two decades, has been under renewed scrutiny since the documentary “Surviving R. Kelly” was broadcast on Lifetime in January. He has denied engaging in any illegal conduct.
Separately, a federal judge ruled that prosecutors led by Alexander R. Acosta — who is now the secretary of labor — violated federal law when they failed to tell victims about an agreement not to prosecute Jeffrey E. Epstein, a wealthy New York financier accused of molesting dozens of underage girls in a trafficking ring.
_____
4. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, has acknowledged recently that she could sometimes be “too hard” on staff members.
Interviews with more than two dozen former staff members and internal emails suggest a toxic work environment. Ms. Klobuchar, above, in Iowa last week, threw office objects in frustration, including binders and phones, in the direction of aides, former staff members said. She berated an aide for neglecting to bring a plastic fork on a plane and ate a salad with a comb — then told the aide to clean the comb.
Ms. Klobuchar’s office said that “these anonymous stories — some of which are just plain ridiculous — do not overshadow the countless experiences of people on the senator’s team who she has been so proud to work with.”
In other Washington news,  Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, scheduled a vote for Tuesday on legislation that would end President Trump’s emergency declaration for his promised border wall.
_____
5. The producers of “Empire,” Fox’s second-highest-rated drama, announced that Jussie Smollett’s character would not appear in the final two episodes of the show’s fifth season — which essentially buys time to figure out what to do with his character. Above, Mr. Smollett exiting the Cook County Department of Corrections after posting bail in Chicago on Thursday.
The announcement came one day after the police in Chicago arrested Mr. Smollett and said he had staged an attack against himself to garner publicity.
Within weeks, 20th Century Fox Television, the studio that produces “Empire,” will be folded into the Walt Disney Company after Disney closes on its purchase of many of Fox’s entertainment properties. Suddenly Disney’s opinions of Mr. Smollett will become a vital part of the calculus.
_____
6. The dollar is still king. 
Despite many predictions after the financial crisis that the dollar might finally founder, it has amassed greater stature as the favored repository for global savings, the paramount refuge in times of crisis and the key form of exchange for commodities like oil.
Its potency has enabled the Treasury to find buyers for bonds at enviably cheap rates and given added bite to Mr. Trump’s foreign policies by amplifying the power of his trade sanctions — especially against Iran and Venezuela.
Between the beginning of 2008 and late 2018, the share of reserves that central banks worldwide held in dollars remained roughly constant, at around 62 percent of the total, according to the International Monetary Fund. Reserves entrusted to the euro, the dollar’s most formidable competitor, stand at 20 percent, and China’s currency makes up only 2 percent.
_____
7. Along Venezuela’s border with Brazil, Venezuelan security forces fired on a group of indigenous Venezuelans protesting their government’s determination to block aid deliveries from outside the country. At least two civilians were killed and more than a dozen wounded, according to an opposition lawmaker. Above, an ambulance at the scene.
The political opposition, led by Juan Guaidó, the head of the National Assembly who declared himself president last month, has vowed to forcibly bring in aid this weekend.
Venezuela is racked by shortages of basic goods and essentials, especially medicine. The aid could be a lifeline for dozens of patients in critical condition or with serious chronic diseases who were interviewed by The Times. But they fear the political standoff will eclipse their emergencies.
_____
8. On the second day of a historic global meeting in Rome on addressing clerical sexual abuse of minors, the American cardinal entrusted by Pope Francis with organizing the meeting presented Roman Catholic leaders with a set of new proposals, including changes to the process for investigating bishops accused of misconduct or negligence.
But there was no guarantee that the proposals would be enacted. Above, Evelyn Korkamaz, holding a photo of herself when she was a child, told her story at a news conference in Rome on Friday.
While other countries have taken a hard look at the problem of clerical abuse, Italy has approached it with something closer to a cultural and media blackout, and we explored why.
_____
9. By its own admission, the Defense Department allowed a firefighting foam to slip into at least 55 drinking water systems at military bases around the globe, sometimes for generations. This exposed tens of thousands of Americans, possibly many more, to a group of man-made chemicals known as PFAS that have been linked to cancers, immune suppression and other serious health problems.
Above, a water tank in Fountain, Colo., a town affected by contamination over the years.
Last week, the Environmental Protection Agency said it would begin the process of potentially limiting the presence of two of the compounds in drinking water, calling it a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.”
But many said that was not enough. All told, 10 million people could be drinking water laced with high levels of PFAS — termed “forever chemicals” for their persistence — according to Patrick Breysse, a top official at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The military never alerted all of the people who drank polluted water. A growing movement of veterans and others is demanding answers.
_____
10. “His shoe broke.”
That was former President Barack Obama’s correct assessment from the stands after college basketball’s biggest star, Zion Williamson, tumbled 30 seconds into the biggest game of the season, at Duke’s arena, and sprained his knee, sidelining him for one to two weeks.
One of his Nike shoes split open, above right, renewing questions about whether sneaker companies, which were at the heart of a federal fraud trial near the start of the season, do more harm than good in college sports.
How did it happen? That’s a puzzle even to experts. One guessed “product failure.”
Have a good weekend.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON — Ecuador's president on Tuesday accused Julian Assange of hosting numerous hackers at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to give them directions on how to propagate information on topics important to the WikiLeaks founder and his financiers.
President Lenin Moreno said that Swedish programmer Ola Bini, who is in custody in Ecuador, was one of the hackers who visited Assange many times.
Bini lives in Quito and was detained last week just hours after Moreno evicted Assange from the embassy, allowing him to be arrested by British authorities. Moreno said Bini hacked cellphones and online accounts belonging to both private citizens and Ecuador's government.
In Quito earlier in the day, Bini's parents made an anxious plea for authorities to release their son while expressing confidence he did nothing wrong.
"Ola is a friend of Julian Assange, nothing more," said his father, Dag Gustafsson.
Meanwhile, demonstrators clashed with police in Ecuador's capital during a protest against Moreno's action against Assange, his firing of state workers and the government's taking of a loan from the International Monetary Fund.
Moreno made his allegations while at the Inter-American Dialogue during his five-day visit to Washington. He will not have meetings with officials from the Trump administration.
Assange had enjoyed asylum since 2012 at the embassy in London but relations between the silver-haired Australian and Ecuadorian officials had grown increasingly tense. Moreno's government has accused Assange of creating conflict by meddling in international affairs, harassing staff and even smearing feces on the embassy's walls.
Assange is in custody in London awaiting sentencing for skipping bail to avoid being sent to Sweden as part of an investigation into a rape allegation. The U.S. is also seeking his extradition after charging him with conspiring to break into a Pentagon computer system.
Ecuador's president suggested Assange was able to operate equipment and collaborate with embassy staffers for a long time thanks to the support of Moreno's predecessor, Rafael Correa, who granted asylum to Assange.
"There are other answers that fit with someone's else money, which (this person) kept taking away from Ecuador in order to keep power and in order to go back to power," Moreno said without referring specifically to Correa at first.
But at a later point, Moreno said "the president" spends $3 million a month to propagate his ideas and has been receiving money from the socialist government of Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro to perform economic studies. He did not specify an amount.
Moreno said his government has not requested cooperation from the United States for the investigation of Assange and Bini. But, he added, "if we need it, we will request. Let's not forget this is a country with very high technology."
Ecuadorian Interior Minister Maria Paula Romo contends Bini traveled at least 12 times to meet with Assange at the London embassy. She says he was also in Venezuela earlier this year around the same time as a close aide to Correa.
Prosecutors have said they intend to charge Bini with hacking-related crimes and had him ordered detained for up to 90 days while they compile evidence.
Bini's father said his son works as a software developer for a non-profit group and has a "burning passion" for freedom of speech and online personal integrity issues. He said he is convinced his son is innocent and will remain in Ecuador until he is released.
"For us, it's surreal to think Ola is involved in these things, these accusations," Gustafasson said.
___
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
President Trump is planning to establish a 12-member committee to study whether global warming affects national security, despite existing government reports showing such a threat.
According to a White House memo released last week, the panel will include William Happer, a Princeton physicist who has said that carbon dioxide — a greenhouse gas that scientists say is warming the planet — is beneficial to humanity.
The effort to establish the panel appears to be the latest step by the Trump administration to question the science of climate change. 
Perspective: The effects of climate change are a daily presence in Miami. In an Op-Ed, Ban Ki-moon, former secretary general of the United Nations; and Francis Suarez, the city’s mayor, wrote about Miami’s efforts to adapt.
At the Vatican today, Pope Francis called for “concrete and effective measures” to address child sexual abuse, an issue that has devastated and eroded faith in some corners of the Roman Catholic Church while being utterly ignored and denied in others.
Survivors have pushed for uniform laws to impose zero tolerance. But Vatican officials say that legal and cultural barriers to identifying abusers make putting in place a global standard virtually impossible.
The conference instead will amount to a kind of crash course for church leaders on how to handle abuse cases — and to convince some that the problem exists at all.
Voices: “We clearly think something can be done, and we are waiting for specific actions,” said Marek Lisinski, 50, from Poland, who was molested when he was 13 by a priest who remains in ministry.
The “Empire” actor reported a hate crime last month, saying he had been attacked in downtown Chicago by masked men who shouted homophobic and racial slurs. Mr. Smollett is in custody this morning after being charged with filing a false report, as prosecutors say he staged the assault himself.
Mr. Smollett, through his lawyers, had denied any role in coordinating an attack.
The background: Investigators had difficulty corroborating Mr. Smollett’s account from the beginning, even with about a dozen detectives assigned to the case. They eventually tracked down two men who appeared on video footage not far from the scene. The men turned out to be brothers who knew Mr. Smollett.
As the economic crisis in Venezuela has deepened into one of the worst in Latin American history, more than three million people have fled the country — largely on foot.
One morning, children, grandmothers, teachers, nurses, oil workers and the jobless found themselves bound by a collective will to escape dangerous shortages of food, electricity and medicine, as well as political unrest. 
Their willingness to brave treacherous mountain roads to reach Colombia spoke to the desperation in Venezuela.
Yesterday: Venezuela closed its borders with three Caribbean islands to block aid shipments organized by the opposition. The move came before a Saturday deadline to end a blockade and allow in humanitarian aid that has been piling up for more than a week.
In the Jewish state’s early years, new immigrants were placed in transit camps because of housing shortages. Women who gave birth in overburdened hospitals or who took their infants to the doctor were told that their children had suddenly died.
Most of the children who disappeared were from the Yemenite and other “Mizrahi” communities, an umbrella term for Jews from North Africa and the Middle East, and DNA testing has proved that some of them are still alive. A younger generation is demanding answers.
Court curbs asset seizures: The Supreme Court ruled unanimously on Wednesday that the Constitution limits the ability of states and localities to take and keep cash and other private property used to commit crimes. The practice, known as civil forfeiture, is a popular way to raise revenue.
Michael Cohen to testify: Mr. Cohen has agreed to publicly appear before Congress on Wednesday to discuss his work as President Trump’s personal lawyer. 
No return for woman who joined ISIS: Hoda Muthana, an American-born woman who wants to return home after traveling to Syria to join the Islamic State, will not be readmitted to the U.S., President Trump has said.
Prosecutors outline terrorism plot: A Coast Guard lieutenant  who was arrested in Maryland last week was planning to kill journalists, Democratic politicians and what he called “leftists in general,” federal prosecutors have said.
Deadly blaze in Bangladesh: At least 70 people have died after a fire in Dhaka, the capital.
Baby powder safety: Johnson & Johnson said it was being investigated by the U.S. authorities over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its talc-based products.
Snapshot: Above, Horsetail Fall in Yosemite National Park this week. Each February, the setting sun on the face of El Capitan creates the appearance of a so-called firefall. 
Barack Obama’s presidential library: The planned center in Chicago will not include a research library or any of Mr. Obama’s official presidential records, according to newly released details. Roughly 30 million pages of unclassified records will be digitized and made available online.
Foldable smartphones: Samsung’s newly unveiled Galaxy devices incorporate new features that may start spreading to other smartphones, our tech columnist writes.
Late-night comedy: Seth Meyers commented on the $4 million raised by Bernie Sanders for his presidential bid: “Great for Sanders, but terrible for the guy behind him at Coinstar.” 
What we’re reading: this Topic feature. Michael Wines, a national correspondent, writes: “Here’s what happened to 15 folks who got financial windfalls — not a million bucks, except in a couple of cases, but enough to change their lives, if they chose.”
Cook: Feed the kids in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.
Listen: Gary Clark Jr. is an exceedingly rare figure, a bluesman who has a major-label recording contract and a worldwide audience. His new album, “This Land,” is a Critic’s Pick.
Read: “Under Pressure,” a look at how girls are affected by stress and anxiety by Lisa Damour, debuts on our advice, how-to and miscellaneous best-seller list.
See: The Metropolitan Opera has announced its 2019-20 season. Our critics share what they’re most excited about.
Smarter Living: Finding out you have a chronic illness changes life for you and those you love. To take control, learn all you can about your illness. Make lists of questions for doctors. Teach friends and relatives so they can better understand what you’re going through.
Drowning in plastic? We have nine steps to help you cut your plastic consumption.
In fortune, children, friends, or wife,
Owe all their zest to thee.
Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.
Mahomed, who died on or around this day in 1851, had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.
But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”
He claimed that the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing: Or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”
He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.
Before the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, before the News of the World tabloid broke into voice-mail messages and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano.
Mr. Pellicano was a private investigator in Hollywood, a man who drove around town with a baseball bat in his trunk and who was very good at uncovering people’s secrets. He ran a vast surveillance operation out of his office with a sprawling network of wiretaps. If you needed an unpleasant issue to go away, or a nasty tidbit to improve your standing in a divorce or business dispute, he was the go-to guy.
He wiretapped the actors Sylvester Stallone and Keith Carradine, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love, among many others. He conducted an illegal criminal background check on Garry Shandling, threatened a journalist and, according to testimony at his trial, even offered to have a producer murdered, his body buried in the desert. He had been behind bars since 2003.
On Friday, the private eye who intimately knew Hollywood’s underbelly — and, some would say, was its leading man — walked out of a Los Angeles federal prison at the end of his sentence and was free for the first time in more than 15 years.
Though it has been a long time since Hollywood last heard much from the man who heard its private conversations, he is hardly forgotten, and some of those he investigated were dreading this day.
“It’s certainly not comforting,” said Jude Green, who testified that Mr. Pellicano threatened her during her divorce. “I’m looking for peace and harmony — I’ve had enough excitement.”
Friends and former employers have not forgotten him, either. Some have contributed to a trust fund worth “in the tens of thousands” to help Mr. Pellicano get by, according to a person familiar with the fund who declined to be identified because it was a private effort. Requests for an interview with Mr. Pellicano, placed through a lawyer, went unanswered.
Mr. Pellicano, who turned 75 on Friday, was originally known as an audio expert from Chicago. He was used as an expert witness by prosecutors and hired by The New York Times in 1979 to determine if the voice on a recording belonged to the former shah of Iran.
By the 1990s, he had set up shop as a private investigator in Los Angeles who wouldn’t open a case without a $25,000 retainer and could charge clients hundreds of thousands of dollars. A former employee testified that in his offices on Sunset Boulevard, a Los Angeles police officer on the take would swing by to pick up stacks of hundred dollar bills, and a half-dozen iMacs sat recording phone calls in his “war room.” As recently as last year, he teased in an interview with the The Hollywood Reporter that he might — just might — have Mafia connections.
“If you tried to connect me to organized crime, you probably could get close — but no cigar,” he said.
In 2002, his career began to unravel spectacularly. A reporter named Anita Busch, who had written for The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times, had recently published articles about the waning career of Michael Ovitz, one of the founders of the Creative Artists Agency and a former president of the Walt Disney Company. That summer, she found what appeared to be a bullet hole in her windshield, along with a dead fish and a rose on a tin tray on the hood of her car. A note was taped to her car that said, “Stop.”
She later sued Mr. Ovitz for hiring Mr. Pellicano. According to court documents, she said that her phone had been tapped, her computer hacked and her hard drive erased. She said that two men in a Mercedes had tried to run her over and that she had been warned that someone planned to blow up her car. Mr. Ovitz planned to argue that the fish was Steven Seagal’s fault — Ms. Busch had been reporting about Mr. Seagal as well — though the F.B.I. found no persuasive evidence that the actor was involved, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
She and Mr. Ovitz settled out of court. He did not respond to a request for comment.
While investigating the threat against Ms. Busch, the authorities found grenades and C-4 explosives in a safe in Mr. Pellicano’s office. He was sentenced to 30 months on weapons charges. In 2008, he was convicted again, this time on more than 70 charges including racketeering, wire fraud and wiretapping, and he had been in prison until this day.
“My code word when I would call the F.B.I.,” Ms. Green said, “was C-4.”
Ms. Green said that Mr. Pellicano cornered her outside a Santa Monica, Calif., dog groomer where she had taken her Shih Tzu for a haircut. He blocked her car and got in her face, then followed her to a Peet’s Coffee, where he boxed her in again and then shoved her inside the store. She said that she yelled to make a scene and fled.
Mr. Pellicano often represented himself in various cases, preferring to refer to himself in the third person. This sometimes created a difficult situation for witnesses and a variety of odd scenes.
Neville Johnson represented the plaintiffs in several lawsuits against Mr. Pellicano and other organizations, including the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police departments, where Mr. Pellicano had officers feeding him confidential information.
Mr. Johnson recalled that during a deposition at a federal prison in Big Spring, Tex., Mr. Pellicano would say things like “I hereby instruct myself not to answer.”
That deposition got off to an inauspicious beginning. As Mr. Pellicano sat in the prison cafeteria in his jailhouse uniform, the court reporter instructed him to raise his right hand and asked if he swore to tell the truth.
“He said ‘no,’” Mr. Johnson recalled.
In addition to his other recordings, Mr. Pellicano was fond of taping his own phone calls — including incriminating ones — and many of those were recovered by investigators. But the F.B.I. suspected there were even more recordings, because on the tapes they did find, Mr. Pellicano spoke about storing some audio files outside his office.
Or so said an F.B.I. agent, Jonathan Mosser, when he was cross-examined by Mr. Pellicano at his trial:
Mr. Pellicano: Who was the person that told you that Mr. Pellicano took audio files and stored them off site?
Agent Mosser: Mr. Pellicano.
Mr. Pellicano: Mr. Pellicano?
Mr. Mosser: Yes. 
Mr. Pellicano: When did Mr. Pellicano tell you that he stored information off site?
Mr. Mosser: In the audio recordings.
Those tapes were never recovered.
Mr. Pellicano very likely could have faced less time in prison if he had cooperated with the authorities, but he never talked. In his interview last year with The Hollywood Reporter, he discussed “omerta,” the Mafia code of silence, and the value of keeping secrets. Among them, he said, were Michael Jackson’s. Mr. Pellicano worked for Mr. Jackson in the 1990s but said he quit when he learned what The Hollywood Reporter described as “truths even darker than those alleged in Jackson’s molestation scandal.” The Jackson family and estate have denied all allegations of sexual misconduct against him.
Mr. Pellicano emerges into a world of technology and surveillance vastly different from the one he left behind. With the landscape so changed, and his private investigator license revoked, it is not clear how he will make money now. Lawyers who sued Mr. Pellicano usually gave up because he had no money to pay any judgments.
He does, however, emerge with his secrets, and whatever value they possess. In a Newsweek interview in 2011, he claimed that he had offers to publish an autobiography, but that he could not write it because the clamor of prison was too distracting.
Bert Fields, a prominent entertainment lawyer in Los Angeles who had worked with Mr. Pellicano over many years, recalled him as doing “superb work.” (Mr. Fields was investigated in connection with Mr. Pellicano’s activities but said he had not used any wiretaps in any of his cases, and he was not charged.)
Mr. Fields said he made a “minor contribution” to Mr. Pellicano’s post-release trust fund.
“He served his time and paid his dues, and I felt it was appropriate to make a contribution,” he said. “It had absolutely nothing with trying to keep him quiet or anything like that, and if anyone were to say that, I would probably sue them.”
The Justice Department said Wednesday that it had opened an investigation into a 2007 plea deal negotiated by a prosecutor who is now a member of President Trump’s cabinet that kept the financier Jeffrey E. Epstein from facing federal charges related to accusations that he molested dozens of underage girls.
The inquiry came in response to requests from Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, who on Wednesday posted a letter on his website from Assistant Attorney General Stephen E. Boyd informing him of the investigation.
The plea deal, which was negotiated by the labor secretary, R. Alexander Acosta, when he was the top federal prosecutor in Miami, was the subject of a Miami Herald investigation that was cited by both Mr. Sasse and Mr. Boyd. The letter does not mention Mr. Acosta by name.
In the letter, Mr. Boyd said the Justice Department Office of Professional Responsibilities would look “into allegations that Department attorneys may have committed professional misconduct in the manner in which the Epstein criminal matter was resolved.”
Mr. Boyd said the office “will thoroughly investigate the allegations of misconduct that have been raised and, consistent with its practice, will share its results” with Mr. Sasse “at the conclusion of its investigation as appropriate.”
A lawyer for Mr. Epstein, Martin Weinberg, said Wednesday that the 2007 plea deal had been reviewed and approved by “multiple levels of the Department of Justice.”
“The agreement entered into between Jeffrey Epstein and the United States Attorney’s Office was fairly negotiated by experienced teams of attorneys representing each party,” Mr. Weinberg said in an email. “It was anything but a sweetheart deal.”
Mr. Acosta did not respond to a request for comment. On Thursday, the Department of Labor said in a statement that the plea deal had been scrutinized before and Mr. Acosta “welcomes the O.P.R.’s additional review of this matter.”
“For more than a decade, this prosecution has been reviewed in great detail by newspaper articles, television reports, books, and Congressional testimony,” the statement said. “Department of Justice leadership, likewise, reviewed the matter at the time, and the Department has continued to defend the Southern District of Florida’s actions across three administrations and several attorneys general on the grounds that the actions taken were in accordance with Department practices, procedures, and the law.”
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Sasse, a Republican member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, celebrated the decision to open an investigation.
“Jeffrey Epstein is a child rapist and there’s not a single mom or dad in America who shouldn’t be horrified by the fact that he received a pathetically soft sentence,” Mr. Sasse said in a statement on Wednesday. “The victims of Epstein’s child sex trafficking ring deserve this investigation — and so do the American people and the members of law enforcement who work to put these kinds of monsters behind bars.”
Mr. Epstein, a well-connected investor who once had a list of billionaire clients and influential friends including President Trump and former President Bill Clinton, was suspected by the F.B.I. of international sex trafficking of underage girls.
Police findings showed Mr. Epstein had engaged in sex acts with underage girls, some of them runaways or foster children, in his Palm Beach, Fla., mansion. He currently lives in the United States Virgin Islands, Mr. Weinberg said.
The Miami Herald investigation, published last year, detailed how Mr. Acosta, when he was United States attorney for the Southern District of Florida, secretly negotiated a plea deal with Mr. Epstein that granted federal immunity to him and “any potential co-conspirators.”
Under the terms of the nonprosecution agreement, Mr. Epstein pleaded guilty to state charges of soliciting prostitution from a minor. He was supposed to spend 18 months in the Palm Beach County jail.
But once in custody, Mr. Epstein was granted work-release privileges that let him leave jail for up to 12 hours a day six days a week, The Herald found. He served 13 months in jail.
Mr. Weinberg, the lawyer for Mr. Epstein, said in an email that the plea deal had been in the best interest of prosecutors.
“As a result, the government avoided litigation risks including the risks of an acquittal,” he wrote. “And Mr. Epstein went to jail, served a period of probation, lived up to each and every obligation under the agreement, and has fully conformed his conduct to the law for well over 10 years.”
The deal enraged Mr. Epstein’s accusers, who did not learn about its existence until after it was approved by a judge.
Two of his accusers, who are now adults, have filed a lawsuit against the federal government. It alleges that the deal violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act and seeks to have it voided. On Wednesday, their lawyer, Bradley Edwards, declined to comment on the announcement about the federal investigation.
MELBOURNE, Australia — The sentencing of Cardinal George Pell for molesting boys more than two decades ago comes just weeks after a Vatican summit in which Pope Francis called for “all-out battle against the abuse of minors.”
Cardinal Pell is the most senior cleric in the Roman Catholic Church ever to receive jail time for child sexual abuse. But for decades, it has been victims, journalists and civil authorities who have forced abusers into the open and called them to account when church leaders failed to do so. 
Law enforcement officials in some countries have become more willing in recent years to prosecute priest perpetrators, according to observers of the scandals. 
Here is how countries other than Australia — with varying historic and societal ties to the Catholic church — have dealt with abusive clergy: 
While thousands of priests have faced civil lawsuits for sexual abuse in the United States, and some have faced criminal trials, no one of Cardinal Pell’s stature has been convicted. In February, the Vatican found former cardinal and archbishop of Washington Theodore McCarrick guilty of abuse, and defrocked him. Mr. McCarrick is unlikely to face criminal prosecution, however, because the alleged abuse took place well beyond the statutes of limitations. 
These restrictions are common across the United States, and directly correlate with the data on clergy abuse in any given state, said Anne Barrett Doyle, co-director of BishopAccountability.org. Some states have extended the statute of limitations, allowing victims more time to report abuse. But in others, like Pennsylvania — where an explosive grand jury report recently documented abuse of 1,000 children — the church has lobbied against bills to broaden the statute of limitations, tying prosecutors’ hands. 
“Amending legislation so that victims can try to obtain justice in court will help victims,” Mitchell Garabedian, a lawyer from Boston who has represented hundreds of survivors, said in a recent statement. The laws need to change, Mr. Garabedian said, to give victims the chance “to heal.” 
Hundreds of priests have been accused of sex crimes in Italy, but few have been convicted, and ever fewer have gone to jail, according to limited data. The scope of the problem has, in part, been obscured because of the cozy relationship between church and state, say experts, where a culture of impunity has long protected abusive members of the clergy.
“There’s some kind of silent understanding that’s going on between the church authorities, and the police, the judges; there are some issues that are too sensitive to be investigated,” said Massimo Faggioli, an expert on Catholic church history at Villanova University in Pennsylvania. “This is as it’s always been in the last four, five, six, centuries.”
In February, the United Nations released a report criticizing Italy for “the numerous cases of children who have been sexually abused by religious personnel of the Catholic church,” and “the low number of investigations and criminal prosecutions.” 
Mexico has the second largest Catholic population in the world after Brazil, but only four priests in the country have been convicted of sexual abuse in the past decade. In part, as in the United States, this is because of restrictive statutes of limitations.
A deep Catholic heritage and weak reporting laws — which only require clergy to notify civil authorities of abuse if it occurs during religious worship or on church property — also play a part, experts say.
“In Mexico we don’t have a lot of cases denounced, but we have an estimation of about 500 cases that could be prosecuted,” said Adalberto Méndez, a human rights attorney in Mexico and a member of Ending Clergy Abuse, a victims’ advocacy group. 
“This is a really Catholic country,” Mr. Méndez added. “The authorities don’t want problems with the church.”
Searing government reports exposing the scope and severity of the abuse problem in Ireland — which relied on the Catholic church to run schools, orphanages and other social service organizations for decades — have undermined the country’s trust in the church. Ninety-three priests and brothers have been convicted there, according to BishopAccountability.org. 
“The government would have bowed down to the church” said Marie Collins, a survivor of clergy sexual abuse in Ireland, and a former member of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors, a group created to advise Pope Francis. 
“Those days,” she said, “are well and truly passed.” 
In some cases, however, strict defamation laws as well as privacy lawsuits filed by the church have protected abusers from being publicly identified, stifling further investigation, experts said. A law holding church officials accountable for covering up abuse was finally introduced in 2006. 
“The real anger was focused on the church authorities and their failure to act,” said Maeve Lewis, the executive director of One in Four Ireland, a victim support group. That was what “caused so many people to absolutely abandon the church,” she said.
The Philippines has the third-largest Catholic community in the world, but no priests there have been convicted of child sexual abuse, according to BishopAccountability.org. At the Vatican summit in February, however, Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle, the archbishop of Manila, admitted that “wounds” had been inflicted by bishops, and needed to be healed.
Cardinal Tagle has been criticized for his lack of commitment to zero-tolerance policies on child sexual abuse in the church. That combined with what victims’ advocates describe as laws hostile to victims and a lack of survivor support groups, make it challenging to bring perpetrators to justice in the Philippines. 
A handful of priests and bishops have been publicly accused of sexual misconduct, but it is “very rare,” said Shay Cullen, a priest in the Philippines and founder of the Preda foundation, which helps victims of abuse. 
“Denial and cover-up is rampant,” Father Cullen said. “If the truth ever breaks out,” he said, “there will an avalanche of cases.”
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.
No one playing Bob Fosse could feel like a good dancer.
Not even Sam Rockwell, who can shimmy so well that many of his movie characters cannot make it to the end of a film without busting a move. He improvised slinky malefactor slides for his villains in “Charlie’s Angels” and “Iron Man 2.” The way he grooved through a diner in a Flight Facilities music video was reminiscent of Christopher Walken’s cool dance number for Fatboy Slim’s “Weapon of Choice.” 
Mr. Rockwell danced his “Saturday Night Live” monologue with top hat and cane and did a split in a fitted suit on “The Tonight Show.” And at the Vanity Fair Oscar party in February, he and his girlfriend, the actress Leslie Bibb, kicked off a dance circle that led to Glenn Close tearing up the floor in a glittering jumpsuit.
“Leslie’s a pretty good hoofer,” Mr. Rockwell said about his tall, lithe girlfriend, who played Will Ferrell’s wife in “Talladega Nights” and has a coming series on Netflix as a superhero mom. “She’s got that kind of Ann Reinking frame, and she can actually krump a little.”
The actor, 50, looked beat when I met him one recent Saturday afternoon at the Bowery Hotel to talk about his latest project, “Fosse/Verdon,” an eight-part series on FX. It also stars Michelle Williams, as Gwen Verdon, and was conjured by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Thomas Kail, who directed “Hamilton” and “In the Heights,” and the producer Steven Levenson. Nicole Fosse, the daughter of the two dancers who embodied Broadway razzle-dazzle, is also a producer. It is based on Sam Wasson’s biography “Fosse.”
The redheaded Verdon, Mr. Wasson told me, was “the greatest musical comedy star of all time, arguably,” winning four Tonys in six years in the 1950s. Fosse was the only person to win an Oscar (“Cabaret”), Tonys (“Pippin”) and Emmys (“Liza With a Z”) in the same year.
Mr. Rockwell had gone to SoulCycle that morning to stay lean while playing the sinuous Fosse, who had an addiction to work, women, Camels, Dexedrine and Seconal, not to mention his lifelong satyriasis. And then Mr. Rockwell had gone to a four-hour rehearsal.
He ambled in with his “old lady,” Sadie, a German shepherd. He was wearing a beanie he kept from his movie with Hilary Swank, “Conviction,” a brown print Prada shirt, black dance pants and dance shoes, and a kneepad like Fosse used to wear. Sadie, wearing a vest labeled with the word “service,” is an emotional support dog.
Mr. Rockwell ordered two different Amaros, one sweet and one bitter, and asked me if I wanted a sip of Fernet. “It settles your tummy,” he said, his hazel eyes earnest.
Like Fosse and Verdon, Mr. Rockwell was exposed to show business early. Both parents were aspiring actors. He picked up some moves in middle school in San Francisco. He wanted to get away from “a white supremacist group,” and started hanging out with “a crowd that wanted to dance. We went to high school dances and it was when ‘Footloose’ and Michael Jackson’s ‘Thriller’ album was out. And break dancing. It was a way to meet girls, and I just kind of got into it, got into James Brown.”
When they began making the series, Mr. Rockwell recalled, “I was cocky and I said, ‘I can dance,’ so I went into this room and I tried to keep up, and it became apparent pretty fast that I am not a real dancer. And even though I have rhythm and I can move, picking up choreography like that is a different thing. Doing ballet, jazz, tap since you were 6 is different than what I do.”
He went for intensive lessons in fundamental tap dancing and Fosse 101. “Tap is hard,” he said.
And he had to shave his head to accommodate the hairpiece of Fosse’s stringy comb-over.
Fosse changed movies and Broadway forever, inventing an original American dance idiom: syncopated, tiny, isolated movements with shades of burlesque and showbiz with a capital S.
“He added a dark sparkle, which is a hard thing to do in dance, to add negative feelings to something exuberant and vital,” Mr. Wasson told me. 
Just as Fosse was influenced by Charlie Chaplin (the bowler hat and “Sweet Charity” moves), Groucho Marx (the walk in “Steam Heat” in “Pajama Game”) and Fred Astaire (“Dancin’ Man”), he influenced many others; homages easy to discern in videos by Beyoncé, Usher, Justin Timberlake, Madonna, Lady Gaga and Michael Jackson, who tried to get Fosse to direct the “Thriller” video. (See Fosse play the Snake in “The Little Prince” to see what Jackson adapted.)
The FX show’s creators know that the thrice-married, always unfaithful Fosse, who was constantly seducing his own dancers, is a dicey character to build a show around in the #MeToo era. That’s why they’ve elevated Verdon to the title and focused on her collaboration.
Fosse manipulated but also wore his heart on his sleeve, telling women exactly who he was. Plagued by death, failure, self-contempt and his memories of being sexually abused in his early teens by hard-bitten burlesque dancers, he depicted an increasingly nihilistic view of humanity.
“I learned about dancing from his demons because in his material, he was therapeutically raking himself over the coals,’’ said Andy Blankenbuehler, the choreographer of “Fosse/Verdon” and “Hamilton.” “As he got deeper into his own style, drawn to stories about broken people, heartbreak and abusive situations, his style was like a crushed Coke can. Shoulders more and more slumped forward, elbows pinched in, stillness on the outside but a dark engine rotating fast inside.”
I read Mr. Rockwell something written in The New York Times about Fosse’s brutally truthful autobiographical masterwork, “All That Jazz”: It’s about “a man furiously driving his failing body like a worn-out sports car, throwing pills into it like a high-octane fuel, packing it with more and more girls, until he smashes it into the wall at the end of the world.”
Mr. Rockwell agreed. “Because he was essentially, you could say, molested when he was 13, he had a complicated relationship with women. He revered them. His style certainly shows that. He’s not so much sexual as he is sensual. He celebrates women’s sensuality. He doesn’t demean it in his dance style. But at the same time, he had a lot of anger towards women.”
He said that his acting coach referenced “Dead Ringers,” the movie in which Jeremy Irons plays creepy twins, as a good model for Fosse and Verdon.
“It’s a complex romance,” Mr. Rockwell said. “It’s almost like they’re twins. There’s a symbiotic thing with them that transcends, not just a romantic relationship, it’s almost like they’re joined at the hip.”
Just as Verdon left her baby son with her parents to return to dancing, Mr. Rockwell’s mother moved back to New York to pursue her performing career after her divorce, leaving 5-year-old Sam to be raised by his father, except in summer, when Sam joined her in New York. He would go along when she did singing telegrams. (Once, she sang to Jack Lemmon.)
Mr. Kail noted the irony that the great success of Verdon and Fosse in “Damn Yankees” provided the template for the couple’s Faustian bargain. Fosse helped create Verdon as a leading lady when he choreographed her “Whatever Lola Wants, Lola Gets” dance as the devil’s temptress seducing an older baseball player in Washington to sell his soul to regain his youth. 
That’s when the dancers fell in love and he left his second wife, Joan McCracken, also a musical comedy star on Broadway. He hurt Verdon with his other women, but she kept working with him and she was with him when he died in D.C. at 60 from a heart attack just before the opening night of a “Sweet Charity” revival.
Mr. Rockwell, who has now transcended his reputation as the quirky sidekick, is drawn toward gray. He was surprised by the backlash at the idea that his racist cop in “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” seemed to be redeemed at the end of the movie (the role won him a Golden Globe and an Oscar for best supporting actor), but “I can’t worry about that.”
“I grew up on the movies, the American films in the ’70s," he said. “They were all antiheroes. ‘Midnight Cowboy,’ ‘Taxi Driver,’ ‘Five Easy Pieces,’ ‘Badlands,’ ‘Silkwood,’ ‘Sophie’s Choice,’ ‘Raging Bull,’ ‘Mean Streets.’ These are all movies about antiheroes. You don’t see a lot of that now. You see a lot of superheroes, archetypes. I think antiheroes are really fun to play. They’re just more interesting characters. Like the guy in ‘Five Easy Pieces’ is kind of an ass. You know?”
He padded himself up again for “Best of Enemies,” out in theaters next week, playing another porky racist who tangles with a strong woman and comes out a better person. There is unlikely to be the same blowback because Mr. Rockwell is playing a real person, an exalted grand cyclops of a Ku Klux Klan group in Durham, N.C., who becomes a convert to civil rights activism thanks to an African-American woman played by Taraji P. Henson.
“Taraji is supercool,” he said. “We graduated high school the same year. We know the same songs.” They bonded over a shared appreciation of music, especially Doug E. Fresh’s ‘La Di Da Di.’”
He said they were moved by the scalding spectacle of Charlottesville, Va., to make the movie. “Obviously, racism is still very much alive, you know?” he said. “And you have to continue to tell these stories. I know that ‘Do the Right Thing’ and ‘Mississippi Burning’ had a big effect on me when I grew up. So if I can contribute in that manner, then that’s a good thing.”
As Mr. Rockwell likes to say, you don’t have to be an ass to play an ass. Maybe because he played a 10-year-old Rick once in an East Village improv comedy skit to his mother’s Ilsa, the actor is a great proselytizer for therapy. He even asks his shrink for advice on how to think of his characters.
His partner in crime in “Charlie’s Angels,” Kelly Lynch, said Mr. Rockwell is “a doll” whose strength is his combination of “super-chill” and vulnerable.
“He can slide into dark characters because he doesn’t judge them,” she said. “A lot of actors would say, ‘Ick, I don’t like this guy.’”
Mr. Rockwell said he doesn’t believe that his character in “Three Billboards” is truly redeemed. “I think he’s on his way to something. But it’s like the end of ‘Good Will Hunting,’ when Matt Damon cries in Robin Williams’s arms, and then he drives off to find Minnie Driver. It’s like he’s done working on himself. Like, ‘Oh, no more therapy.’ You know? You don’t just cry and then not go to therapy anymore. So it’s the same thing with Dixon. He’s on his way to trying to be a better person. But he’s not done working on himself, and certainly Frances’s character has a lot of work to do on herself. They’re both screwed up.”
[RELATED: Sam Rockwell shares a bit more about himself.]
I asked him what he thinks happened to the characters played by him and Frances McDormand on that road trip to track down a rapist.
“My theory is, maybe they went to a bar to get a little liquid courage to kill the guy, then they ended up getting drunk and making out," he said. “I don’t think they killed the guy.”
I asked Martin McDonagh, the director and writer of the movie, what he thinks about that coda. Mr. McDonagh recoiled. “I don’t want to picture them fooling around,” he said. “That would be a dangerous little romance.”
Mr. Rockwell has said he would let himself be eaten alive by rats to work with Mr. McDonagh. The Irishman said that he admires Mr. Rockwell because, while he is “the loveliest, nicest guy I’ve worked with, so smart and generous and a joy to be around,” he brings a “frisson of danger” to his performances.
George Clooney seconded this sentiment. He gave Mr. Rockwell his breakthrough role, in “Confessions of a Dangerous Mind,” in which Chuck Barris, the creator of “The Gong Show,” claimed to be a C.I.A. assassin.
“Sam is easily one of the best actors I’ve ever seen,” Mr. Clooney told me. “His ability to make you root for characters that ordinarily would be despised is uncanny.” Mr. Clooney concluded: “He makes it all seem so effortless. Come to think of it, I hate him.”
Thomas Kail compared Mr. Rockwell to a jazz musician, who only makes surprising riffs after “he takes every scene and examines it and scrutinizes it and marinates in it.”
That explains his pitch-perfect portrayal of George W. Bush in “Vice," for which he was also nominated for a best supporting actor Oscar.
“I became obsessed,” he said. “I watched a lot of interviews. I listened to him on countless interviews. There’s an autobiography that he narrates. Then I had my dialect coach break it down.” He even talked to his shrink about it.
“I began to find him really charming,” Mr. Rockwell said, adding that the key to impersonating W. was adding “a little Elvis, a thing in the lip. It actually gave me a little bit of a muscle twitch in my chin.”
Ms. Bibb joked on the red carpet for the Golden Globes about how disturbing she found it, when he was playing that role, to be sexually attracted to Bush.
Mr. Rockwell said that the thing he loves about Ms. Bibb, who sold her place in Los Angeles to move into his East Village apartment, is that she makes him laugh.
When he first saw her act in a short film, he said, it seemed as though “Jessica Lange and a young Mary Tyler Moore and Carol Burnett all had a baby.” He added: “She’s a pistol. She definitely gives me a run for my money, challenges me. It’s never boring.”
When they met more than a decade ago, in the lobby of Chateau Marmont, they flirted and he left his number with the maitre d’ to give to her.
“I was like, oh boy, I’m in for it now. She better be a good actress. You can’t date a bad actor. Not long term, anyway.”
They agreed to go on a date, but when Ms. Bibb suggested a day at the Getty Museum, Mr. Rockwell rolled his eyes and reluctantly agreed. They had such a good time, Ms. Bibb said, “Let’s get a drink. Let’s go to El Compadre and get a margarita.”
But, Mr. Rockwell said, he had a “backup plan,” because he was “very single at the time” and he figured, “first date, nothing’s really going to happen on a museum date. And I was, you know, trying to be a man about town, but I was not succeeding at doing that. She knew I had a backup plan, so I said, ‘I just got to get my cigarettes and my coat, call my friend and tell him I can’t’ and she knew. She still makes fun of me about it. And then we went and got a drink.
“I was never really good at being single. You have to stay up late. You have to drink when you don’t want to drink. You have to, you know, dating is horrible. You have to go through all these dates to get with somebody you want to talk to.”
I wondered if he ever tried online dating.
“I never had that swipe thing,” he said. “It’s dangerous.” In fact, the only stuff he does on his phone is texting and getting Ubers.
He said that with two actors, it’s tricky. “You have to take turns being Elvis and Cher. You know what I mean. Like today, I’m on doggy duty.”
I asked if he still doesn’t want kids.
“Yeah, me and Leslie, we’re not doing the kid thing,” he said. “It’s not my jam. It’s not my thing. I’m more of an uncle type.”
I wondered if it has to do with his childhood, when his parents broke up and he stayed with his father in San Francisco, while his bohemian mother moved to New York to pursue her acting career. (New York magazine once wrote that Mr. Rockwell had the air of having been raised by wolves “but very considerate wolves who write thank-you notes after they’ve eaten all your sheep.”)
“It could be, but these days everybody comes from a broken home,” he replied. “My mom, she really is a good mother and she did the best she could. I think I’m too selfish to be a father. I think I know what it takes. You know? I just don’t want to put a kid through — my lifestyle is a little crazy, and I think Leslie feels a similar way — and frankly I’m too selfish. I want to have my life and wake up when I want to wake up. I’d rather take care of the dog and take care of Leslie and take care of myself.”
What if he was with someone who wanted kids? I wondered.
“It probably wouldn’t have worked out,” he said with a shrug.
I noted that not much seems to have changed since his Oscar. He’s still in the same East Village pad.
“I play jazz in the morning," he said. “This guy, Ahmad Jamal I like. You know, Stan Getz. I have a little vinyl. It’s nice to play in the nighttime. Put on some Bill Evans, Fleetwood Mac. Chet Baker, I love. Miles and Coltrane. With vinyl, sometimes you got to put a penny on the needle.”
And with that, Sam and Sadie shimmied off. Leslie Bibb has dinner ready.
In 2018, the United States executed 25 people and over 2,700 prisoners remain on “death row.” It is one of only 56 nations in the world that still practice capital punishment.
Last week, California Gov. Gavin Newsom announced a moratorium on capital punishment in his state. Watch the one-minute video above announcing his decision.
Should the United States as a country stop using the death penalty? Is it ever justified, such as for the most heinous crimes? Or do you think it is always cruel and unusual punishment? Alternatively, do you think it should be suspended for practical reasons, such as because it is costly or sometimes unfairly administered?
In “California Death Penalty Suspended; 737 Inmates Get Stay of Execution,” Tim Arango writes:
The article continues:
The article concludes:
Students, read the entire article, then tell us:
— Do you support or oppose the use of the capital punishment? Should it be abolished in the United States?
— Do you think the death penalty serves a necessary purpose, like deterring crime, providing relief for victims’ families or imparting justice? Or is capital punishment “cruel and unusual punishment” and therefore prohibited by the Constitution?
— What is your reaction to Gov. Newsom’s moratorium announcement? Which of his arguments for a moratorium do you find most persuasive? Which are the least?
— The article states:
Do you think Mr. Newsom was right to issue a moratorium despite recent votes in support of the death penalty by California’s residents? Do you think it violates the will of the state’s residents, or should he follow his own conscience? Should public opinion matter in cases like capital punishment?
— How concerned should we be about wrongful convictions? Do you have concerns about the fair application of the death penalty, or about the possibility of the criminal justice system executing an innocent person? Do the recent cases of Kevin Cooper and Vicente Figueroa Benavides, cited in the article, affect your views?
Related Resources:
After Decades, a Death Sentence Depends (a Little) Less on Where You Live
Death Penalty Loses Majority Support for First Time in 45 Years
A Pause on the Nation’s Biggest Death Row
Pope Francis Declares Death Penalty Unacceptable in All Cases
Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
America, and the music world at large, has spent a significant portion of the past month grappling with the implications of “Leaving Neverland,” the haunting HBO documentary that revisits highly credible pedophilia allegations against Michael Jackson. But on Friday, good news will emerge about a member of the Jackson family that runs the risk of being overlooked. 
Mr. Jackson’s younger sister, Janet Jackson, who has been one of the world’s brightest and most influential pop stars in her own right, will finally be inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame — 15 years after the “Nipplegate” fiasco at the Super Bowl halftime show that threatened her career, and 30 years after the release of her groundbreaking album “Rhythm Nation 1814.”
Unlike most of her contemporaries in a comparable stratum, Ms. Jackson has found her entry into music’s most recognizable house of prestige elusive until now. She has been eligible since 2007, and there has been no shortage of whispers or indignant blogging, insisting she has been left out of the hall’s induction classes until now by the same entertainment industry forces that marginalized her after the infamous “wardrobe malfunction.” 
In February 2004 — when phones weren’t smart, Twitter didn’t exist, The Facebook was days away from birth, LeBron James was still a teenager and Donald Trump was still a Democrat with a reality show — Janet Jackson had a nightmare unfold, in the space of a second, as she headlined the MTV-produced halftime show of Super Bowl XXXVIII. Before a crowd of over 71,000 and 90 million more watching on TV, Ms. Jackson performed a medley of her hits across three decades. She was then joined for a finale by a bearded yet still baby-faced Justin Timberlake to perform “Rock Your Body,” a catchy, dance-inducing number from his solo debut.
The song, which threw the crowd into a happy frenzy, briefly became a duet. Then, in a cinematic shock — as the duo spun apart for what was meant as a final “costume reveal” in the choreography — Mr. Timberlake ripped off a portion of Ms. Jackson’s top, exposing her right breast on live television, just after he’d delivered the song’s last line: “Bet I’ll have you naked by the end of this song.”
By the time heads quit spinning, “wardrobe malfunction” had been coined, and what was meant to be a crowning moment for Ms. Jackson was reduced to a meme. They both said it was an accident. But conspiracy theories abounded, and still do. 
Parent groups, major advertisers (their parent companies) and the White House all condemned the incident. CBS was handed a fine by the Federal Communications Commission for indecency, which was ultimately voided. And Mr. Timberlake — who, accidentally or not, did the ripping — largely avoided public rebuke.
Ms. Jackson, absent from the Grammys that year under unclear circumstances, after being scheduled to appear, experienced a newfangled, online-enabled public taunting analogous only to that faced by Monica Lewinsky at the millennium’s turn. She lost countless endorsement and touring opportunities. (She’ll have her highest-profile return to the limelight when she begins a residency in Las Vegas in May.)
But, of course, the five-time Grammy Award winner is being honored because her cultural influence and career, while dotted with distress, has been anything but tragic, taken as a whole.
The youngest child in the Jackson family, she had seen her brothers already gain fame as the Jackson 5 before she was a teenager. The 1986 album “Control,” produced by the icons Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, would be her own, noncoincidentally titled breakthrough. She had fired her notoriously domineering father as her manager, and her quest for independence powered the project’s vocal energy, which was matched by bombastic synths and carefree drum-heavy beats. 
“Nasty,” a defiant, feminine power anthem protesting unwanted male attention and disrespect, featured a video subtly ahead of its time in its messaging about consent. (The snare drums drop, pointedly, after she shouts at a grabby pursuer, “Stop!”)
“Control” topped the charts and established Ms. Jackson as a pioneer of genre-bending New Jack Swing and the modern music video: self-referential quirks and extended dance breakdowns paired with film-like production and narrative. The visual companions to lasting singles like the exasperated yet ebullient “What Have You Done for Me Lately” and the dance number “Pleasure Principle” (legendary back flip and all) helped break MTV’s gendered color line.
Where “Control” focused on self-actualization, “Rhythm Nation 1814” (1989) aimed to address the world and her country, with its simmering social divides, and offer a salve.
“Join forces in protest to social injustice/A generation full of courage, come forth with me,” she declared over the up-tempo, industrial grind of the title track. The progressivism embedded in the album managed to be simultaneously cool and civic-minded at a time when such a feat was considered nearly impossible for a pop star.
Not only did all seven singles from “Rhythm Nation 1814” land in the top five of the Billboard 100, it had No. 1 hits in three separate years — with different songs topping the chart from 1989 through 1991. A long-form video medley of the album, shot in black and white, won a Grammy. Ms. Jackson’s global popularity and the indescribable coolness of her perch in American popular culture at the time is hard to capture in hindsight, or to compare with our digitally Balkanized era.
She continued to flourish with her fifth album, 1993’s “Janet.,” embracing her femininity and sexuality with more confident ease than in any of her previous work. Writing about the album on its 25th anniversary for Rolling Stone, Brittany Spanos noted how “Janet.” inspired artists like Beyoncé, Rihanna, SZA and Janelle Monáe, all of whom openly testify to how her example helped them incorporate “power, intimacy and assertiveness” into their own work. 
For many women of color growing up in the ’80s and ’90s, Ms. Jackson was the first “triple threat” superstar who looked like them to reach, or fully “cross over,” to the mainstream. It was “Janet” whom they danced to in front of their mirrors and imitated in dress, not Michael.
As she entered her 30s and her career steadied to a cruise of experiments and radio hits, Michael Jackson’s had become increasingly weighed down by his questionable relations with children.
Mr. Jackson was first accused of molestation in 1993. The case was settled for over $20 million in 1994 and the charges were ultimately dropped after the boy refused to cooperate with the investigation. Janet Jackson was resolute in support of her brother during the episode and after it.
Footage from a documentary released in 2016 shows her denouncing the 1993 allegations. “Now, if this really went on, do you think a father would accept money?” she asks the interviewer. “Do you think that would make everything O.K.? It doesn’t make any sense.”
Ms. Jackson hasn’t spoken up since “Leaving Neverland” aired. Her nephew Taj Jackson told CBS News’s Gayle King that she feared addressing the film would just “put more energy” into the matter, but he insisted that she, too, believed Michael was innocent.
However, her radio silence now, after a previous vociferous defense, seems at best a convenient tactic of avoidance by the family’s second-most-famous member and at worst a tacit acknowledgment that she was most likely wrong all along.
Still, whereas Mr. Jackson’s career never quite recovered from a scandal of his own making, Janet Jackson’s career was derailed by a bizarre moment over which she had little agency. (In an extra, queasy layer of coincidence, “Rock Your Body,” the song playing during the Super Bowl nudity flash, is a tune that Mr. Jackson had reportedly turned down for his 2001 album, according to Billboard’s Jason Lipshutz.)
The public rebuke she received wasn’t all organic. A 2018 HuffPost report revealed that the CBS chairman Les Moonves, who was ousted last year as evidence of his own sexual misconduct mounted, was determined to ruin Ms. Jackson’s career because of the Super Bowl incident. Convinced it was a stunt and enraged with Ms. Jackson, according to the report, he demanded that Viacom radio stations, as well as VH1 and MTV, which she helped integrate in prior decades, stop playing her music.
Ms. Jackson and Mr. Timberlake both offered apologies. But Ms. Jackson, a black woman, was almost exclusively shamed.  For uncertain reasons, despite initial plans, she wasn’t at the Grammys. He was still welcome to attend and won two awards. His career flourished, even as it waxed and waned (see his return to the halftime show of the Super Bowl last year). Hers was arguably suffocated — and at a time before millions of fans could crowdsource their cultural capital for backlash. There was no Black Twitter — with its mix of influential literati, activists and humorists — to have Janet Jackson’s back.
The moment lasted just nine-sixteenths of a second but carried centuries of subtext, something Mr. Timberlake himself pointed out after time passed. “I probably got 10 percent of the blame,” he admitted. “I think America's probably harsher on women, and I think America is, you know, unfairly harsh on ethnic people.”
“Nipplegate” is, in some ways, textbook proof that “intersectionality” — the term coined by Kimberlé Crenshaw, the same year “Rhythm Nation” was released, to describe the overlapping forms of discrimination — is not an abstract “ism” but a reality that can negatively manifest itself in culture-altering ways.
When Madonna kissed Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, there were guffaws and temporary scoldings. But she was once again celebrated as a provocateur, then shortly afterward inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in 2008 — by Mr. Timberlake, no less. Ms. Jackson, who became eligible for the hall in 2007 didn’t receive a nomination until 2016.
Although Janet Jackson’s legacy certainly doesn’t need the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame’s validation, its lack of recognition was threatening to become a glaring omission. Now, at long last, the oversight will be corrected — and Ms. Jackson can take her bow.
The director Gaspar Noé is fond of making films in which characters are raped and beaten, or in which a drug trip turns into a journey to hell. They are troubling to the stomach. They hurt the heart. So what does a man who is tickled by such horrors watch for pleasure?
“I’m hypnotized,” he said in an interview, “by good dancers.”
“Climax,” his most recent film, doesn’t just have good ones: They are great. But Mr. Noé also throws fear and revulsion into his movie about a party where punch laced — by whom? — with LSD is served. A pregnant woman is attacked, brutally. A mother locks her son in an electrical closet to keep him away from the increasingly deranged, drugged dancers. (He might have been better off hanging out with them.)
It’s fitting that go-for-broke dancing, and the private, messy and passionate lives of dancers, are the conduits that feed Mr. Noé’s latest creation. A body holds plenty of space for terror.
Like Fred Astaire teaming with Ginger Rogers, dance has found a perfect partner for a new kind of pas de deux: horror. It’s a fit. For Mr. Noé — he is an extreme director, and dance is an extreme art — a dancer’s body has a range of emotions that don’t simply land on good or evil.
Dancers are able to take risks while remaining physically articulate: this lends believability to their performances, which makes them, well, scary — and strangely sensual. In “Climax,” Mr. Noé explores the Dionysian meeting point of dance and horror by revealing a body that is both ecstatic and frightening. And, as he shows, a dancer knows how to let go.
“Climax” isn’t the only recent movie to match dance with horror. In last year’s remake of “Suspiria,” by Luca Guadagnino, a dancer finds herself in a modern company that doubles as a coven. (Lots of snapping bones.) The young ballerina in Darren Aronofsky’s psychological horror “Black Swan” (2010) battles her sanity as she pursues perfection.
And even though it doesn’t fall neatly into the horror category, last year’s “Red Sparrow” featured a horrifying moment. Jennifer Lawrence’s character breaks her leg during a performance — with a repulsive crack, her partner lands on it — which ends her ballet career but not her ballet mind-set. She takes the discipline and rigor of her dance training and applies it to her second career as a spy, notably in the art of seduction.
But horror can also be subtle — and even appear in disguise. In “The Red Shoes” (1948), the ballerina Victoria must choose between dance and love. What happens? She dances to her death. It’s a sumptuous, beautiful film, but it’s also chilling: Dance can make a person lose her propriety, her respectability and even her mind.
While the cinematic approaches are different, there is a common thread: Using the body as a force that steers clear of prettiness in favor of something more primal, raw and even ferocious. Beyond merely dark, it can get abhorrent.
Maybe what’s happening now in dance-horror is a reaction to things like Damien Chazelle’s sunny and sentimental “La La Land” (2016), with its earnest, naïve dancing that pays awkward homage to the mainstream tradition of the American musical; or the slick dancing of the Fox reality show “So You Think You Can Dance,” in which contestants perform choreography that has cheapened the form with its emphasis on tricks and speed. Bring on the witches.
Mr. Noé doesn’t watch ballet or contemporary dance; he said he liked Busby Berkeley when he was a child and considers “Showgirls” a kind of musical movie. (He’s a fan.) But he loves to dance. “I know it sounds stupid, but I like clubbing,” he said. “I like night life in a different way than I like daylight.”
He had an epiphany at a vogue ball in Paris in 2017. “The mood was so incredible in that ballroom,” he said. “There were, like, 300 people and no one was drunk, but they were crazy — shouting and dancing. And at that point, I said, I want to do a movie with these dancers.”
The “Climax” cast, led by Sofia Boutella — an actor who got her start as a street performer and danced with Madonna — is a mix of dancers who specialize in styles like vogueing, waacking and krump. While the film’s second half is full of movement in which the performers improvise their psychotic, possessed states as the LSD takes hold, it opens with a spectacular five-minute dance, with choreography by Nina McNeely, set to Cerrone’s “Supernature.”
Giddy and wild, it’s an example of order and abandon that says a thing or two about the transcendent joy of dance. Ms. McNeely said she was inspired by the film “A Chorus Line” (even though the look is the 1980s, she loves its camerawork) and Bob Fosse’s “The Rich Man’s Frug” from “Sweet Charity” (for its big group and patterns). She also knew that Mr. Noé would be using a crane; for one extended sequence, the dance is captured from above, giving it a hint of Busby Berkeley.
The first thing Mr. Noé told her was that he wanted to make a movie about energy. “O.K.,” she said, with a laugh. “A little vague. But it was totally true. He loved the dancers who were the most savage and he just wanted it to have a visceral feeling — like the feeling that you have when you see dancers going crazy at the club.”
Ms. McNeely, a Los Angeles-based choreographer and director who was recommended for the job by Ms. Boutella, a friend — scrambled to create the opening dance in two days, which is impressive given the nature of street dancers: They’re soloists, and they usually they don’t work with counts.
To break up their solo moments with synchronized choreography, she landed on the most ordinary of movements: walking. In the dance — which is one continuous shot — Ms. McNeely uses walking as a way to introduce characters, to serve as a frame around a soloist and, at times, to reveal dancers, almost like a curtain being parted. It gives the dance a clear structure. “Because of all the different styles, walking became the glue of the piece,” she said. “Think about it: That’s why people watch runway shows, because walking is awesome just to look at. It’s strong.”
And it speaks to the way dance and the body are used in the movie. There are no special effects: It’s just the body and the beat, and watching it is addictive — even for Mr. Noé. “When we go to festivals and I check the sound level before the movie starts, I usually stay so I can watch it over and over,” he said. “It’s probably my favorite scene in the movie because they’re dancing in such different ways, but altogether. You can watch on the right side and you can watch on the left side — you really discover new things all the time.”
Along with the drug scenes, where the dancing is both dreamy and unhinged, there’s another valuable choreographed moment in “Climax.” Mr. Noé originally planned to set his film during a rainstorm, but, he said, “after two days of shooting, it started snowing — heavy. I said, ‘Do you think we can get a drone and try to make this shot?’”
That scene occurs before the dance and, in a way, sets it up: “Climax” is a movie told through movement and here, a woman, stumbling and bloody, lurches and drags her way across a white backdrop — a snow-covered field.
He managed it in two takes. “People ask me, ‘Is this a reference the ‘The Shining’? Is it an homage? No!”
He laughed in delight. “The snow,” he said, “was there for us to take.”
Beyoncé has the BeyHive and Nicki Minaj the Barbz, fan groups who swarm online against anyone who disparages their idols. The Deadheads may have provided a blueprint, though these days they are more likely to bicker among themselves.
But in the age of the 21st-century superfan, perhaps no group is more emphatic, organized and passionate online than the devotees of Michael Jackson, the King of Pop whose legacy includes decades of innuendo and court cases regarding what he did or did not do with young boys.
Across blogs, message boards, podcasts, YouTube videos and especially social media feeds, where a Jackson avatar broadcasts one’s allegiance, they circulate exhaustive evidence that they view as exonerating for the singer, while shouting down news outlets they consider inaccurate and biased.
Brewing for weeks, their fight kicked into a new gear on Sunday, with the airing of the first half of “Leaving Neverland,” an HBO documentary about two men who say Jackson repeatedly sexually abused them as children.
Ads for MJInnocent.com on buses in London and digital billboards in the United States are proclaiming: “Facts Don’t Lie. People Do.” Under the Twitter hashtag #MJFam, dozens of fan accounts have encouraged counterprogramming to the film, instructing followers to stream Jackson’s music instead of watching. And on Sunday night, fans deluged the #LeavingNeverland hashtag with thousands of tweets, dominating discussion of what they called a “mockumentary” and attacking the two men at its center.
[Michael Jackson cast a spell. “Leaving Neverland” breaks it, our critic writes.]
Dan Reed, the director of “Leaving Neverland,” which concludes on Monday, said that his company had received “dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens” of emails from Jackson fans — “a deluge of hatred” beginning within 20 minutes of the film’s announcement in January. He and the two men in the film, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, said that some fans had taken it even further, with threats of violence.
“One can only compare them to religious fanatics, really,” Reed said. “They’re the Islamic State of fandom.”
Jackson’s supporters don’t see it that way. Since accusations in 1993 by a boy and his family ended with a $23 million settlement, the fandom’s party line has been that any allegations amounted to extortion plots by hangers-on hellbent on tarnishing Jackson and exploiting his naïveté.
A specific strain of the Jackson faithful has pored over the granular details of his life and cases, including the 2005 trial in which he was acquitted of charges he molested another boy, in hopes of proving his innocence. Those fans — including the young and old, from Queensland, Australia to Moscow to Huntsville, Ala. — view “Leaving Neverland” as a manipulative, one-sided hit piece that rehashes old allegations from inconsistent sources.
The film has also turned what was for years a niche obsession for many Jackson fans into a mainstream battle.
“If you’ve been a fan for a long time, you’ve seen this over and over again,” said Casey Rain, 30, a musician and YouTuber living in Birmingham, England. He called “Leaving Neverland” a “sick attempt at hijacking the Me-Too moment.”
Many Jackson fans resort to indiscriminate, anonymous hate mail targeting journalists and Jackson’s accusers. Others like Rain show their devotion in deeper ways, painstakingly constructing videos and epic polemics that weave together court papers and obscure interviews, then sharing and resharing their work across multiple platforms.
“There’s nothing about Michael that the fan community doesn’t know,” said Rain, whose blog post about “Leaving Neverland” became a go-to text even before the documentary aired. “I really don’t think that we lack objectivity on him.” (Rain and others who had not yet seen the film said their information came from a few Jackson fans who attended the Sundance premiere and took “very, very detailed notes.”)
Susanne Baur and Elena Ovchinnikova, who co-author the blog Vindicating Michael, said they prefer not to be called Jackson fans at all because fan “has a too negative connotation of adoration and worship,” Baur, 60, wrote in an email from southern Germany.
Instead they identify as researchers and activists who view Jackson as a civil rights case. In a post about “Leaving Neverland” that totaled more than 10,000 words, Ovchinnikova, who is 65 and based in Moscow, parsed the changing stories of the two men in the film and concluded that they are liars.
“The reaction of the M.J. community is absolutely adequate,” Ovchinnikova said via email. “It is the reaction of knowledgeable people who have to talk to ignoramuses.”
Linda-Raven Woods, a 56-year-old from Huntsville, called herself a former “die-hard metalhead” whose lingering questions about Jackson’s guilt after his death had led her to fansites.
Wowed by the depth of their research, Woods realized, “This is why they defend him so passionately,” she said. She is now an administrator of @MJJLegion, a Twitter account with more than 80,000 followers that has been busy coaching fans on how to counteract the documentary.
Some of these supporters acknowledge that the elaborate lengths of their writing and reasoning invites comparisons to conspiracy theorists, or as Damien Shields put it, a “ranting mob.”
But Shields, the author of a book on Jackson’s music and a fan for more than two decades, said it is all a matter of perspective: “We also view the media as a ranting mob in some circumstances.”
He said that the fans’ support comes from a place of love and passion, comparing those on social media to the Britney Spears fan Chris Crocker, who cried “Leave Britney alone!” in an infamous viral video.
“That’s Michael Jackson fans on Twitter times a million,” Shields said.
In the cases of Robson and Safechuck, fans note that both had previously testified that Jackson never abused them, and that they later unsuccessfully sued the singer’s estate. (Their claims are now under appeal.)
Both men said that it took them years to accept that they were abused and that they had felt pressured to testify on Jackson’s behalf. Reed, the director, said the film was, by design, “about how Wade changed his mind and confronted the truth about what happened to him” — a “radical reassessment of what it all meant.”
In an interview, Robson said that he understood the way many still cling to Jackson’s “very particular angelic persona.” He added, “That was so palatable for so many people, including myself.”
Robson and Safechuck said they, too, had faced an onslaught since coming forward, with Robson describing “thousands of extremely volatile and nasty emails or social media comments.” They cited the intensity of Jackson’s defenders a possible reason more people don’t come forward. “It’s an extremely terrifying thing to do,” Robson said.
As the film’s television premiere approached, some fans struggled with keeping up the fight for Jackson’s reputation as they also girded themselves for the increased scrutiny.
While some said they would boycott the film because it does not include outside context or interviews with defenders, others said they would stomach it for the good of the community.
“I need to know what we’re up against,” said Woods of @MJJLegion.
Shields said he couldn’t help but feel a sense of dread about the coming months: “This literally could be the end of Michael Jackson if — big if — someone in a position of repute doesn’t decide to tell the other side of the story,” he said.
In the meantime, it was “almost like therapy” for fans to do their part to push back on the claims. “Even if their part doesn’t actually make any impact,” he said, “at least they tried their best.”
Filmgoers who saw “Leaving Neverland” when it debuted at the Sundance Film Festival in January called it “devastating,” “harrowing,” and “more disturbing than you could imagine.”
Many of those who saw the documentary when Part One aired on HBO Sunday were just as stunned when they heard for themselves the accounts of two men who say Michael Jackson sexually abused them as boys.
At the same time, Jackson fans swarmed Twitter, criticizing the documentary and his accusers.
By the time he died at age 50 in 2009, Jackson had been trailed by allegations of child sexual abuse for more than 15 years. But “Leaving Neverland” contains granular, disturbing detail that could reshape his legacy for years to come:
A secret system of bells to warn when other adults were approaching. A mock wedding ceremony with a young boy, complete with a gold ring studded with diamonds. Parents who were only too happy to be guests at Neverland, unaware what was happening to their sons a few closed doors away.
The Michael Jackson estate has denied all of the allegations, likened the documentary to a character attack and sued HBO. Part Two airs on Monday night, but is already available to stream on HBO Go and HBO Now.
[Michael Jackson’s fans are tenacious. | Our critic Wesley Morris reviews the documentary.]
Here are some key points and a sampling of more viewer reactions from Part One:
The movie shows how two boys and their families were pulled deep into Jackson’s orbit through fame and show business.
Wade Robson, an aspiring dancer who became a successful choreographer as an adult, met Jackson after winning a dance competition. His mother, Joy, went so far as to move herself, Wade and her daughter to Los Angeles from their native Australia, leaving behind her husband and eldest son, on promises that Jackson would work with them to make Wade a star.
James Safechuck met Jackson when he was cast in a Pepsi commercial that featured Jackson, and at age 10, Safechuck joined Jackson on tour. His mother, Stephanie, recounts meeting celebrities like Sean Connery, flying first class and being chauffeured in limousines. James describes the otherworldly frenzy of just walking with Jackson to his car, slicing through waves of screaming fans.
Every night, he said, he would sleep in a hotel room with Jackson. His mother recounts that as the tour went on, her room got farther and farther from the one her son and Jackson shared.
“Everybody wanted to meet Michael or be with Michael,” James Safechuck says as the film opens. “He was already larger than life. And then he likes you.”
He nurtured relationships, including with the boys’ mothers. He spent hours on the phone with James and Wade, but he would also call their moms, just to talk to them.
Jackson also spent time at the Safechucks’ modest home in Simi Valley, Calif. He could have been anywhere in the world, Stephanie Safechuck said, but he chose to be with them.
“He was a son I started to take care for,” Stephanie Safechuck said. “He would spend the night, I’d wash his clothes.”
She said that she once told Jackson that she had prayed for her son’s success in getting into commercials, and that he went on to find success right away.
In response, she said, Jackson told her that he had prayed, too. He had prayed for a friend, and then he found James.
The Neverland Ranch was Jackson’s California compound that included an arcade, an amusement park, an assortment of exotic animals and a train station. It was the perfect playground for children, and in the documentary it is also portrayed as the perfect place to keep children apart from their parents.
Robson’s and Safechuck’s families were offered rooms in a guesthouse, which was separate from the main house where the boys would each stay with Jackson. Wade Robson’s mother, Joy, recounts that she got the sense during one long visit that her son and Jackson were avoiding her — and in such a big place, that was easy to do. She said she spent a lot of time alone and with Jackson’s chimpanzees.
[“Leaving Neverland” could threaten the fortunes of Jackson’s thriving estate.]
One of the most uncomfortable sequences in the film is when James Safechuck recounts all the places in Neverland where he said that he and Jackson had sex:
On a blanket in Jackson’s closet, where several doors and a system of bells would alert them if someone was coming. In a private screening room at the back of the movie theater. In a house filled with Jackson’s memorabilia, such as a rhinestone jacket he wore to the Grammys. In an attic. In a castle in the theme park. In an upstairs room in the train station.
The property had been for sale for several years, with an asking price as high as $100 million, and was recently listed with new brokers for $31 million.
James Safechuck takes a small gold ring, studded with diamonds, out of a jewelry box and slips it onto his finger. It doesn’t fit past the fingernail of his adult hand.
This was the ring, he said, that he and Jackson used in a mock wedding ceremony. When they went to a jewelry store to pick it out, they pretended Jackson was buying it for a woman whose hands were small, like the boy’s.
As each sits alone in front of the camera, Robson and Safechuck recount a frightening pattern of abuse by Jackson, made even more disturbing by the similarities between them.
Both said Jackson would ask them to get on all fours so he could look at them from behind while he masturbated. He asked them to rub his nipples. He would perform oral sex on them and they on him. He showed them pornography.
Safechuck says the abuse started when he was 10. Robson says it began when he was 7. They say it went on for years.
Jackson was the subject of two child molestation investigations during his lifetime. The first time, Jackson reached a settlement with the boy who accused him and no charges were filed against him. The second time, after a trial, Jackson was acquitted.
[Read a timeline of Jackson’s history of sexual abuse allegations.]
Jackson’s defenders have pointed out that both Safechuck and Robson have told the authorities in the past that they were not molested by Jackson, and that Robson took the stand in Jackson’s defense during the trial. Both men said that Jackson had trained them for those moments for years, drilling into them that if anyone found out, their lives would be over, or that he and they would go to jail.
The Jackson family and his estate have emphatically denied the allegations, though neither they nor any other Jackson supporters appear in the film.
“The creators of this film were not interested in the truth,” the family said in a statement. “They never interviewed a single solitary soul who knew Michael except the two perjurers and their families.”
The statement said that Jackson “was and always will be 100 percent innocent of these false allegations.”
Last month, the coexecutors of Jackson’s estate sued HBO and its parent company, Time Warner, for $100 million for breach of contract, saying that by airing the documentary, HBO violated a nondisparagement clause in a 1992 contract it signed before airing a Jackson concert in Romania. HBO said it would not change course.
“Despite the desperate lengths taken to undermine the film, our plans remain unchanged,” HBO said in a statement. “This will allow everyone the opportunity to assess the film and the claims in it for themselves.”
Devoted Jackson fans had been girding themselves for the documentary, and through a loose network of pro-Jackson websites and hashtags began planning to counteract the film.
When it began, they overwhelmed the #LeavingNeverland hashtag with thousands of tweets calling the men liars and the film a work of fiction.
The celebrity gossip and news feed Baller Alert also posted a series of skeptical tweets.
The Jackson estate encouraged people to watch the Romanian concert instead.
And Taj Jackson, the singer’s nephew and longtime defender, parried with a critic.
But as Part One moved into more disturbing territory, viewers began reacting with disgust, shock and sadness.
Some asked why the men’s parents had allowed them to get so close to Jackson.
The second half of the documentary, airing on HBO Monday night and available for streaming now, moves through Jackson’s trial, introduces Robson’s and Safechuck’s wives, and takes the audience through their decision, after years of publicly proclaiming Jackson’s innocence, to come forward with their accounts.
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Alabama lawmakers are set to hold a public hearing Wednesday on legislation before a House committee that seeks to outlaw almost all abortions in the state, what critics call one of the most extremely anti-abortion proposals in the country.
The bill would make performing an abortion a felony, punishable between 10 and 99 years in prison, although a woman would not be charged for having the procedure under the proposal. The legislation contains an exemption for the mother's health, but not for rape and incest. But critics said moves to criminalize most abortions in Alabama would come in direct conflict with Roe v. Wade — the landmark 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion nationwide.
Proponents acknowledge that the measure — if passed by both legislative chambers and signed into law — would almost certainly to be struck down by lower courts. Nonetheless, they said, they hoped it would help spur the nation's highest court to revisit the landmark abortion decision.
"The goal of this bill is to address Roe. v. Wade," said Republican Rep. Terri Collins, the House bill's sponsor. A separate version is assigned to the Senate Judiciary Committee.
The House Health Committee has scheduled a public hearing Wednesday on the bill. The hearing is expected to bring heavy turnout from both sides and opponents have scheduled a morning demonstration at the Alabama Statehouse.
Emboldened by new conservatives on the Supreme Court, abortion opponents in several states are seeking to incite new legal fights in the hopes of challenging Roe v. Wade. The Alabama bill comes on the heels of several states considering or approving bans on abortion once a fetal heartbeat is detected, which occurs in about the sixth week of pregnancy. The Alabama bill would go further, banning most abortions from being performed anytime during a woman's pregnancy.
The public hearing is the first action on the proposed abortion ban since the proposals were introduced earlier this month in the House and Senate. The committee will decide whether to send the bill to the House floor. Collins said she believes a committee vote could come as early as Wednesday. The House bill has more than 60 co-sponsors in the Republican-dominated chamber with 105 members. No action has been scheduled yet on the Senate bill
"I believe the Roe v. Wade decision was based on a lack of information that the baby in a womb is a person," House sponsor Collins said.
Randall Marshall, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Alabama, said he expected any such legislation if it became law would be immediately challenged and struck down by the courts, ultimately leaving the state with substantial legal bills.
He called it "one of the most extreme anti-abortion bills in the country, to effectively outlaw abortions in flagrant violation of federal law."
Marshall also questioned the strategy of lawmakers by seeking such a bill.
"They are trying to tee this up as an opportunity for the Supreme Court to reconsider Roe v. Wade and its progeny. There are already cases in the pipeline that will get to the Supreme Court long before this does," Marshall said.
Alabama has passed several abortion restrictions in recent years and seen them struck down by the federal courts. Marshall said the state was ordered to pay $1.7 million to Planned Parenthood and the ACLU after their successful challenge to a law requiring abortion providers to have hospital admitting privileges
The legislation also comes after Alabama voters wrote anti-abortion language into the state constitution, specifying that the state recognizes the "rights of unborn children." Some 59 % of voters approved the constitutional amendment in November.
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. — Just a couple of years ago, Participant Media, a film and television company founded in 2004 by the eBay billionaire Jeff Skoll, seemed to have lost its way. Badly.
Bets on movies like “Denial,” about Holocaust disavowal, and “The Light Between Oceans,” a romance involving a moral quandary, were not paying off as expected. In a retrenchment, Participant, which focuses on issues-oriented entertainment, laid off 50 percent of its work force and closed three divisions. Mr. Skoll ousted the company’s chief executive.
Talk about a roaring comeback.
Participant, now led by David Linde, a former chairman of Universal Pictures, heads into Sunday’s Academy Awards with three major contenders and 17 overall nominations. Netflix has received all the attention for “Roma,” a front-runner for best picture. But Participant financed the film and shopped it to distributors, ultimately choosing Netflix. Participant was also behind “Green Book,” another best-picture favorite, rescuing the movie when another studio had passed on making it.
And Participant joined CNN Films and Magnolia Pictures to release “RBG,” an affectionate portrait of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg that has a very good chance of winning best documentary.
“Having 17 nominations is terrific — obviously — but I’m mostly excited by how much the films are figuring into cultural conversations that feel really vital,” Mr. Linde said. “And wait until what’s next. I think it’s going to rock people’s socks.”
In the months ahead, with backing from Participant, the “Selma” filmmaker Ava DuVernay will deliver a scripted series to Netflix about the Central Park Five, the young black and Latino men who were wrongfully convicted of raping a white woman in Manhattan in 1989. Netflix will also release the Participant-produced documentary “American Factory,” which looks at a clash between a Chinese entrepreneur and blue-collar Ohioans. Later in the year, a Participant drama about a lawyer (Mark Ruffalo) who exposes a pollution cover-up by DuPont will arrive in theaters via Focus Features.
Steve James, an Oscar-nominated documentarian (“Hoop Dreams”), is making a Participant film, “Chicago Story,” that serves as a portrait of the troubled city. Most recently, Mr. James helped Participant return to TV production with “America to Me,” a celebrated docu-series about the racial divide in a public high school. “America to Me” could figure into this year’s Emmys and has an active social-impact campaign.
“It feels like we have found our footing again,” said Diane Weyermann, Participant’s longtime president of documentary film and television. “The company had early success but then grew in ways that weren’t the wisest. Refocusing on content — great storytelling — seems to be working really well.”
The question with any independent studio, of course, is sustainability. Can Participant really keep this roll going? And turn a profit while doing it?
Films with a message have never been easy to sell to the moviegoing masses. Matt Damon in a fracking drama (“Promised Land,” a 2012 Participant effort) has a hard time competing with “Avengers: Infinity War” in 3-D.
But Participant, founded to create positive social change, in part by rolling out specific action campaigns alongside film releases, scored a home run relatively quickly. “An Inconvenient Truth,” in which former Vice President Al Gore spoke about the dangers of climate change, took in $50 million, a huge total for a nonfiction film, and won two Oscars, including best documentary. Moreover, “An Inconvenient Truth,” directed by Davis Guggenheim, made more people pay attention to climate change.
In the coming years, Participant had other hits, including “The Help” (2011), focused on racial reconciliation and made in partnership with DreamWorks, and “The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel” (2011), about seniors combating loneliness. The newspaper drama “Spotlight” (2015), made with Anonymous Content and others, was named best picture at the Academy Awards.
Consistency, however, was nonexistent. For every success, Participant had several expensive misfires, including “The Beaver,” “Fair Game” and “Our Brand Is Crisis.” No studio has a perfect track record, but whipsawing results make it especially hard for independent film companies like Participant to stay afloat, even when they have billionaire benefactors.
Participant, then under the leadership of James G. Berk, who came to the company from the Hard Rock restaurant chain, was also expanding in puzzling ways. Mr. Berk started a cable channel, Pivot — just as the cable business began to falter. Other offshoot businesses included TakePart, a digital publishing effort.
And the movie business was growing only harder. Younger people, in particular, were becoming much choosier about what movies were worth seeing in a theater.
Enter Mr. Linde in late 2015.
Unlike his predecessor, Mr. Linde, 59, is a consummate Hollywood insider, cutting his teeth at Miramax with Harvey Weinstein in the 1990s before becoming co-president of Focus Features and ultimately chairman of Universal. He arrived at Participant after running his own film company, Lava Bear, best known for making the science-fiction hit “Arrival.”
Mr. Linde shut down Pivot, TakePart and another division. He hired a new chief impact officer, Holly Gordon, to sharpen Participant’s social action campaigns. He routed more resources to the development of film and television ideas. The company now has about 120 employees.
In 2017, Participant joined Lionsgate to make “Wonder,” about a boy coping with facial birth defects. The movie took in $306 million, the biggest total ever for a Participant production.
“Just as importantly, a message about compassion was delivered,” said Jonathan King, Participant’s president of narrative film and television. “Kids watch the movie, they internalize that message, it helps to change lives.”
Participant also moved to shore up distribution for its films. The company, for instance, became a founding investor in Amblin Partners, which includes Steven Spielberg’s movie and television operation; the partnership gives Participant access to Universal’s distribution machinery. “Green Book,” a racial issues film in the form of a road trip, was released by Universal and has collected $128 million worldwide.
“David Linde has taken Participant to a unique place in the world of film,” Mr. Spielberg said in a statement. Straddling the line between business and philanthropy “can be a commercially challenging but often rewarding road,” he noted.
Now that Participant has steadied itself, it intends to annually produce and invest in up to 10 narrative and documentary films and three television series. Another business, SoulPancake, which makes videos for YouTube, Facebook and other sites, will deliver roughly 30 hours of content a year.
Mr. Linde said Participant saw tech companies — including Netflix, which is available in 190 countries — as crucial partners. “They give us another path to reach a really substantial audience,” he said. “And start conversations on a global scale.”
LONDON — “The Favourite,” a dark comedy about a love triangle involving Queen Anne in 18th-century Britain, was the big winner of the EE British Academy Film Awards on Sunday in London, with seven awards.
Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” took home four — including the two most coveted, best film and best director — at the British equivalent of the Oscars.
During an acceptance speech, Cuarón said the success of “Roma,” a film about an indigenous domestic worker in Mexico, meant the world to him, especially “in an age when fear and anger propose to divide us.”
The “Favourite” had been tipped to win big. It gained 12 nominations in January, five more than any other film and received rave reviews in Britain.
While it didn’t quite meet those expectations, Olivia Colman won the award for best actress as Queen Anne, repeating her success at last month’s Golden Globes, and Rachel Weisz won best supporting actress for her performance as one of the queen’s advisers and lovers.
“We’re going to get so pissed later,” said Colman upon accepting her award, a British reference to getting drunk. She added that all three of the film’s actresses, including Emma Stone, should share her best actress title. “We can scratch in some other names.”
[Read our critic’s review of “The Favourite.”]
Letitia Wright, a star of “Black Panther,” won the rising award for young talent, which is decided by the British public. She had depression and considered giving up acting, she said during her speech. “Anybody that’s going through a tough time, God made you and you’re important,” she added.
Rami Malek won best actor for his role as Freddie Mercury in “Bohemian Rhapsody,” while Mahershala Ali won best supporting actor for his role as an erudite pianist in “Green Book,” a road movie about race relations, set in 1962. Both won such awards  at the Golden Globes, too.
The Baftas, awarded two days before voting begins for the Oscars, are often considered a bellwether for the Academy Awards. “The Favourite” has been nominated for 10 Academy Awards, tying with “Roma” and setting up another showdown at that event on Feb. 24.
The Baftas lacked the seriousness of last year’s ceremony, when actresses wore black and Time’s Up pins to protest sexual harassment. The event on Sunday was lighthearted, with political commentary limited to a couple of asides about Britain’s impending exit from the European Union. Andy Serkis, handing out an award for best music, said a film without music was like “Britain without Europe.”
The run-up to this year’s Baftas was fraught. Last week, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, which hosts the awards, removed the director Bryan Singer from its nominations because of allegations of sexual misconduct, including molesting a 13-year-old boy.
“Bafta considers the alleged behavior completely unacceptable and incompatible with its values,” it said in a statement.
Singer, who has denied the allegations, made no comment on Bafta’s decision, his publicist, Howard Bragman, said in an email on Friday.
Singer was part of the team involved in “Bohemian Rhapsody,” the biopic of rock band Queen that was nominated for outstanding British film. He is listed as the film’s sole director due to union regulations, despite having been fired before it was finished. In the end, “The Favourite” won that category.
“Bohemian Rhapsody,” which received six other nominations, also won for best sound in addition to Malek’s award.
LONDON — British police dragged Julian Assange from the Ecuadorean embassy last Thursday after his asylum was revoked, ending his seven-year stay there and opening the way for his extradition to the United States.
Assange's supporters, who cast him as a dissident facing the wrath of a superpower, fear the 47-year-old will end up on trial in the United States.
The United States wants Assange for one of the largest compromises of classified information in U.S. history.
What happens now?
WHO IS ASSANGE?
Assange was born on July 3, 1971 in Australia. In his teens, he gained a reputation as a talented computer programmer and in the mid-1990s he was arrested and pleaded guilty to hacking. He founded WikiLeaks in 2006. 
He shot to fame in early 2010 when WikiLeaks published a classified U.S. military video showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters in Baghdad that killed a dozen people, including two Reuters news staff.
WikiLeaks published hundreds of thousands of secret U.S. diplomatic cables that laid bare often critical U.S. appraisals of world leaders, from Russian President Vladimir Putin to members of the Saudi royal family.
WHY WAS HE IN THE ECUADOREAN EMBASSY?
Assange took refuge in the Ecuadorean embassy in June 2012 to avoid being extradited to Sweden, where authorities wanted to question him as part of a preliminary sexual assault investigation. 
That investigation was later dropped but because he had breached his British bail in 2012, he was arrested last week and found guilty of failing to surrender to Westminster Magistrates' Court.
Following his arrest, U.S. prosecutors announced charges against him and Swedish prosecutors are considering reopening the rape investigation. 
JAIL IN THE UNITED KINGDOM?
Westminster Magistrates' Court's Judge Michael Snow said Assange faces up to 12 months in jail when he is sentenced at a later date at Southwark Crown Court.
The British criminal action against Assange will take precedence over extradition proceedings although Nick Vamos, lawyer at London-based firm Peters & Peters and former head of extradition at Britain's Crown Prosecution Service, said in practice it would make little difference.
    "Even if he gets a maximum 12-month sentence, that means he will serve six and it will take at least six months for his extradition proceedings to be resolved," Vamos told Reuters.
    So while he is in custody, the extradition hearings can proceed. The British judge gave the U.S. government a deadline of June 12 to outline its case against Assange.
SO DOES ASSANGE END UP IN SWEDEN OR THE UNITED STATES?
The courts will have to rule on any extradition request and Home Secretary Sajid Javid would decide which one takes precedence.
Vamos said the home secretary would take into account the seriousness of the offence and which request was issued first, and expected a Swedish one would take supremacy. 
    "Even though technically it would be a re-issued request, in effect it would be just a repeat of the request that was issued many years ago and therefore it would be treated as if it was the earliest one," he said.
    "The fact that his extradition had already been ordered on it once would be in the home secretary's mind. The U.S. government can wait a bit longer, they've taken quite a long time to sort out whether they were ever going to charge him or not ...
"We don't know what happened in Sweden, we don't whether he committed that offense and there's a victim there who's been waiting for justice for many years and I think that should take priority."
WHAT IS THE U.S. CASE?
Just hours after Assange's arrest, U.S. prosecutors announced charges against him for conspiring with former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to gain access to a government computer.
The indictment, filed in March 2018 and unsealed on Thursday, said Assange in March 2010 engaged in a conspiracy to help Manning crack a password stored on Defense Department computers connected to the Secret Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNet), a U.S. government network used for classified documents and communications.
Manning, formerly Bradley Manning, was jailed on March 8 after being held in contempt by a judge in Virginia for refusing to testify before a grand jury in what is widely believed to be related to the Assange investigation.
Manning was convicted by court-martial in 2013 of espionage and other offences for furnishing more than 700,000 documents, videos, diplomatic cables and battlefield accounts to WikiLeaks while she was an intelligence analyst in Iraq. Former President Barack Obama commuted the final 28 years of Manning's 35-year sentence.
WHAT IS THE SWEDISH INVESTIGATION?
Assange was accused by two Swedish women of sexual assault and rape in 2010. After opening an initial investigation, prosecutors dropped it, only to reopen it and issue an European arrest order for Assange, who had left the country for Britain.
Assange, who denied the allegations, fought through the courts to get an extradition order and the preliminary investigation dropped. 
His lawyers said he feared that should he go to Sweden, authorities could hand him over to the United States.
Prosecutors ended the preliminary investigation into allegations of sexual molestation and unlawful coercion in 2015 as the statute of limitations had already passed, but kept open the rape probe.
In May 2017, then chief prosecutor Marianne Ny dropped the preliminary investigation into rape without filing any charges, saying that there was no prospect of Assange being handed over within a reasonable timeframe.
Swedish prosecutors said on April 11 they had received a formal request to reopen the rape investigation from the legal counsel representing the alleged victim. 
The request was assigned to Deputy Chief Prosecutor Eva-Marie Persson, who said prosecutors would look into the matter and determine how to proceed. 
The statute of limitation for rape is 10 years, a deadline which would be reached in the mid-August next year.
HOW COULD ASSANGE FIGHT EXTRADITION?
    "Everybody can challenge an extradition request on the basis it would be contrary to their human rights for them to be extradited," Vamos said. 
    "So Assange could argue that it would be impossible for him to have a fair trial in the U.S. given what happened to Chelsea Manning, given the notoriety, the publicity about his case that effectively he's been tried in the media, public statements by U.S. officials (that) it's impossible for him to have a fair trial."
    He could also bring up potential conditions he would face in U.S. prisons.
    "He could argue the entire request is politically motivated that he is being prosecuted by reason of his political opinions or his political affiliations, that it's revenge, it's vindictive, it's a vendetta," Vamos said. "All of those arguments have legs."  
    Sweden's original request for Assange's extradition went to Britain's Supreme Court which backed the request.
    If a lower court orders his extradition, then he could again appeal the decision to London's High Court and ultimately again to the Supreme Court if he can identify a challenge based on a point of law.
    For U.S. requests, the courts' decision has to be ratified by the Home Secretary but Vamos said in effect this was now just a rubber-stamping exercise.
 (Additional reporting by Niklas Pollard and Simon Johnson in STOCKHOLM and Mark Hosenball in WASHINGTON; editing by Robin Pomeroy)
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — A judge has sentenced a western Michigan man to life in prison for killing a 16-year-old girl who accused him of rape.
Forty-three-year-old Quinn James of Wyoming, Michigan, learned his sentence Monday after a Grand Rapids jury found him guilty of first-degree murder in the strangulation death of Mujey Dumbuya. Her partially clothed body was found in January 2018 in woods in Kalamazoo, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southeast of her Grand Rapids-area home.
James was a maintenance worker at Dumbuya's school, and she accused him of sexual assault in 2017. Authorities say James killed the girl while free on a $100,000 cash bond in the assault case.
He was sentenced last December to 20 to 30 years in prison for third-degree criminal sexual conduct.
LONDON — British police dragged WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange out of Ecuador's embassy on Thursday after his seven-year asylum was revoked, paving the way for his extradition to the United States for one of the biggest ever leaks of classified information.
Hours after the frail-looking Assange, with white hair and a long beard, was carried head-first by at least seven men out of the London embassy and into a waiting police van, U.S. officials announced he had been charged with a single count of conspiracy to commit computer intrusion.
As he was being hauled out of the embassy in a dramatic scene shortly after 0900 GMT after Ecuador terminated his asylum, the Australian-born Assange was heard shouting, "This is unlawful, I'm not leaving."
British Prime Minister Theresa May hailed the news in parliament, to cheers and cries of "Hear, hear!" from lawmakers.
But in Washington, President Donald Trump, who in 2016 said "I love WikiLeaks" after the website released emails that U.S. authorities have said were hacked by Russia to harm his election opponent Hillary Clinton, told reporters he had no opinion on the charges against Assange.
"I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It's not my thing," Trump said. 
Assange gave a thumbs up in handcuffs as he was taken from a police station to a London court, where he pronounced himself not guilty of failing to surrender in 2012.
Judge Michael Snow called Assange, wearing a black jacket and black shirt, a "narcissist who cannot get beyond his own selfish interests" and convicted him of skipping bail. Sentencing will be at a later date.
Police said they arrested Assange, 47, after being invited into the embassy following Ecuador's withdrawal of asylum. He took refuge there in 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden over a sexual assault investigation that was later dropped.
Assange was carried out of the building - located behind the luxury department store Harrods - carrying a copy of Gore Vidal's "History of The National Security State", which he continued reading in court.
In Washington, the U.S. Justice Department said Assange was charged with conspiring with former Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to gain access to a government computer as part of a 2010 leak by WikiLeaks of hundreds of thousands of U.S. military reports about the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and American diplomatic communications. Legal experts said more U.S. charges could be coming.
The indictment was made secretly in March 2018 and unsealed on Thursday. He faces up to five years in prison if convicted, with legal experts saying more charges were possible.
Ecuador suspended Julian Assange's citizenship and accused him and others at WikiLeaks of collaborating in attempts to destabilize the Andean nation's government.
FRICTION WITH ECUADOR
Assange was offered refuge in 2012 by Ecuador's then-president Rafael Correa, but his relationship with Ecuador soured under Correa's successor Lenin Moreno, who has said Assange violated the terms of his asylum. Ecuador accused Assange of leaking information about Moreno's personal life.
Lawyers for Assange said he may risk torture and his life would be in danger if he were to be extradited to the United States.
The arrest, after years holed up in a few cramped rooms at the embassy, represented one of the most sensational turns in a tumultuous life that has transformed the computer programmer into a fugitive wanted by the United States.
"The whole House will welcome the news this morning that the Metropolitan Police have arrested Julian Assange, arrested for breach of bail after nearly seven years in the Ecuadorean embassy," May said.
Ecuador's foreign minister said his country was not aware of any active extradition requests for Assange before it terminated his asylum. Supporters of Assange said Ecuador had betrayed him at the behest of Washington, illegally ended his asylum and engineered a dark moment for press freedom.
"Journalists around the world should be deeply troubled by these unprecedented criminal charges," Barry Pollack, a lawyer for Assange, said in a statement reacting to the U.S. indictment.
His admirers have hailed Assange as a hero for exposing what they describe as abuse of power by modern states and for championing free speech. His detractors have painted him as a dangerous figure complicit in Russian efforts to undermine the West and U.S. security, and dispute that he is a journalist.
"Under the guise of transparency, Julian Assange and WikiLeaks have effectively acted as an arm of the Russian intelligence services for years," U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr, a Republican, said. "Hopefully, he will now face justice."
The Kremlin said it hoped Assange's rights would not be violated.
WikiLeaks angered Washington by publishing hundreds of thousands of secret U.S. diplomatic cables that laid bare critical U.S. appraisals of world leaders, from Russian President Vladimir Putin to members of the Saudi royal family.
Assange made international headlines in 2010 when WikiLeaks published a classified U.S. military video showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters in Baghdad that killed a dozen people, including two Reuters news staff.
U.S. INVESTIGATION
Assange's U.S. indictment arose from a long-running criminal investigation dating back to the administration of former President Barack Obama. It was triggered in part by WikiLeaks' publication in 2010 of U.S. military reports about the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the diplomatic communications - disclosures that embarrassed the United States and strained relations with allies.
The Justice Department said Assange was arrested under an extradition treaty between the United States and Britain.
The indictment said Assange in March 2010 engaged in a conspiracy to assist Manning, formerly named Bradley Manning, in cracking a password stored on U.S. Department of Defense computers connected to a U.S. government network used for classified documents and communications.
Manning's lawyers demanded the release of the former intelligence analyst, jailed last month after being held in contempt by a judge in Virginia for refusing to testify before a grand jury, and said "continued detention would be purely punitive."
A Swedish lawyer representing the alleged rape victim said she would push to have prosecutors reopen the case, but a retired senior prosecutor and chairman of NGO Victim Support Sweden said that may be difficult.
Britain said no person was above the law.
"Julian Assange is no hero, he has hidden from the truth for years and years," British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said.
"It's not so much Julian Assange being held hostage in the Ecuadorean embassy, it's actually Julian Assange holding the Ecuadorean embassy hostage in a situation that was absolutely intolerable for them."
Friends of Assange said his solitary existence in the embassy was tough on him.
"It was a miserable existence and I could see it was a strain on him, but a strain he managed rather well," said Vaughan Smith, a friend who had visited Assange. "The thing that was most difficult for Julian was the solitude."
"He was very tough, but the last year in particular was very difficult. He was constantly being surveilled and spied upon. There was no privacy for him," Smith said.
Assange founded WikiLeaks in 2006. The website published secret official information, infuriating the United States and other countries. WikiLeaks said Ecuador had illegally terminated his political asylum in violation of international law.
"Assange's critics may cheer, but this is a dark moment for press freedom," said Edward Snowden, a former U.S. National Security Agency contractor who fled to Moscow after revealing massive U.S. intelligence gathering.
 (Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge, Kate Holton and Costas Pitas; Additional reporting by Alistair Smout, Andrew MacAskill, Henry Nicholls, Peter Nicholls, Dylan Martinez in London; Anna Ringstrom, Simon Johnson and Niklas Pollard in Stockholm; Mark Hosenball, Sarah N. Lynch and Makini Brice in Washington; Nathan Layne in New York; Sabela Ojea in Madrid; Alexandra Valencia in Quito; and Julia Cobb and Helen Murphy in Bogota; Writing by Guy Faulconbridge, Kate Holton and Will Dunham; Editing by Hugh Lawson,; Alistair Bell and Grant McCool)
WASHINGTON — Ronald Reagan famously vowed to “trust, but verify” when confronting strongmen from places like the Soviet Union.
President Trump just trusts them.
When Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, denied meddling in American elections, Mr. Trump said: “Every time he sees me, he says, ‘I didn’t do that.’ And I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it.”
In the aftermath of the Saudi killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a journalist who lived in Virginia, Mr. Trump tweeted, “Just spoke with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia who totally denied any knowledge of what took place in their Turkish Consulate.”
And on Thursday in Vietnam, when Mr. Trump was asked about the death of an American student, Otto F. Warmbier, after meeting with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, the president took pains to absolve him of any responsibility for the torture that Mr. Warmbier was said to have endured during his detention in North Korea before he was returned home comatose.
“He felt badly about it. I did speak to him. He felt very badly,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Kim, whose culpability in Mr. Warmbier’s fate is an article of faith among American national security officials. But for Mr. Trump, the more important declaration came from Mr. Kim himself.
“He tells me that he didn’t know about it, and I will take him at his word,” the president told reporters.
That no-questions-asked approach drew immediate condemnation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that there was “something wrong” with Mr. Trump’s willingness to believe Mr. Kim’s denials, and Nikki R. Haley, the president’s former United Nations ambassador, disputed his rosy assessment.
“Americans know the cruelty that was placed on Otto Warmbier by the North Korean regime,” Ms. Haley tweeted.
It might be tempting for some of the president’s supporters to assume that Mr. Trump’s embrace of Mr. Kim’s protestations of innocence was a one-time occurrence that emerged from his diplomatic efforts to woo Mr. Kim during negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear weapons.
But in more than two years in the Oval Office, the president has demonstrated an unmistakable pattern: He tends to believe what strongmen say.
“These aren’t leaders who are ‘frenemies,’” said Derek Chollet, the executive vice president of the German Marshall Fund and a State Department official under President Barack Obama. “These are folks where the presumption is that they are not on the level and we have to go into these conversations with deep skepticism and eyes wide open.”
Instead, Mr. Chollet said, Mr. Trump seems to accept the statements of foreign leaders at face value when it meshes with his own political interests.
In the case of Russia, Mr. Putin’s denials of election meddling fit with Mr. Trump’s claims that the investigations into whether his campaign conspired with Russia were nothing more than a hoax. After investing heavily in a diplomatic relationship with Saudi Arabia, it worked for Mr. Trump to accept the denials by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of any role in Mr. Khashoggi’s killing.
The pattern continued in a 2017 call to Rodrigo Duterte, the authoritarian president of the Philippines who is accused of ordering extrajudicial killings of drug suspects, when Mr. Trump ignored those claims and instead told Mr. Duterte “what a great job you are doing.”
It is not hard to detect more than a bit of jealousy in Mr. Trump’s encounters with leaders like Mr. Duterte, Mr. Kim, Prince Mohammed and Mr. Putin. He seems to long for the efficiency of their style of government, under which they have sought to bend institutions and the law to their benefit.
Mr. Trump has lamented the “stupidity” of an American system that allows asylum seekers to have their day in court even as he has lauded the Chinese for being able to simply put drug dealers to death with minimal fuss. In China, he noted this month, a drug dealer gets “a thing called the death penalty.”
“Our criminal list, a drug dealer gets a thing called, ‘How about a fine?’” he continued.
What is striking about Mr. Trump’s interactions with foreign leaders is that his eagerness to believe is hardly universal — and is rarely extended to the leaders of the United States’ closest allies, with whom the president has had remarkably rocky relations.
When European leaders repeatedly tried to explain to Mr. Trump the value of NATO and the importance of trade, the president scoffed at their explanations.
After Swedish officials challenged Mr. Trump’s assertion that their country was a haven for terrorism, the president repeated the claim during a news conference. Prime Minister Stefan Lofven of Sweden was standing right next to him.
“I was one of the first ones to say it. I took a little heat, but that was O.K., because I proved to be right,” Mr. Trump insisted.
And after being corrected by the British prime minister, Theresa May, about there not being no-go zones in London, Mr. Trump continued to tweet about “destructive Radical Islamic Terrorism that is taking place within the United Kingdom.”
Mr. Trump’s diplomatic style is an echo of his broader personality that comes through in his interactions at home as well. When Roy S. Moore, a Republican Senate candidate in Alabama, was accused of sexual misconduct with underage girls, Mr. Trump’s first instinct was to believe his rebuttals.
“He totally denies it,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Moore, who was accused of molesting a 14-year-old girl and sexually assaulting another teenager.
Mr. Trump also said he believed the denials from Brett M. Kavanaugh, his nominee to the Supreme Court, as Mr. Kavanaugh battled charges of sexual misconduct when he was in high school and college.
But after Mr. Trump’s comments this week about Mr. Warmbier, the president’s statements on the world stage have once again captured people’s attention. Mr. Warmbier’s parents are no doubt among them.
After Mr. Warmbier’s death, his father, Fred Warmbier, said that his son had been tortured, and he had no doubt who was responsible for the damage that led to his death.
“Otto was systematically tortured and intentionally injured by Kim and his regime,” Mr. Warmbier told Fox News at the time. “This was no accident.”
Late Monday afternoon, the day after electricity had been restored to the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn and heat had returned, protesters kept at it outside the jail, holding banners and banging on pots and chanting and questioning.
They shouted that they loved those inside as they loved themselves, and while some were the actual loved ones of the people detained, most were young activists bonded in outrage over the fact that a federal jail allowed 1,600 detainees  to freeze, in darkness and lockdown, while temperatures outside were in the single digits.
Elsewhere, many other vulnerable people were very cold last week. But they failed to capture the same kind of attention. At one point, the Legal Aid Society reported that nearly 12,000 residents of the New York City Housing Authority, dispersed among several developments in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Manhattan, had been without heat or hot water during the previous 24 hours.
But perhaps because we are so accustomed to hearing about how badly public housing is managed, the crowds and viral videos and expressions of disgust from morning-news anchors and presidential candidates did not materialize.
What was the difference? The conditions at the Metropolitan Detention Center suggested a culture of cruelty over inefficiency, of hostility over neglect. There were heartless guards and overlords, presumably, doing nothing to alleviate agonizing conditions endured by accused drug dealers and gang members and mob bosses who did not command sympathy.
The heating failure followed an electrical fire that erupted in the jail on Jan. 27, the latest in a series of infrastructural problems in the building. Little had been done, it appeared, to fix things quickly. On Wednesday, the Justice Department said it would have its ombudsman conduct an investigation into how the crisis was handled. While some institutional failings can be easily laid at the feet of inscrutable bureaucracies; in this case it seems that individual human beings plagued by huge deficits of compassion were to blame.
When visitors were finally allowed in, to see their husbands and partners, brothers and sons, late in the day on Monday, stories emerged that confirmed this view. One woman, a lawyer, told me that her boyfriend said that a guard had opened a window to bring in more cold air as a means of extending the pain. The inmates had been banging on windows to communicate with the world outside, and this was a form of retaliation.
The man, who was being held on an immigration charge, also told his girlfriend that he never got one of the blankets the city had sent over when news of the heat crisis broke. To what extent they had been distributed was unclear.
The jail also seemed to do a poor job of letting families know what was going on. Another woman, Isabel Vega, said she had grown worried about her husband in the middle of last week because she hadn’t heard from him. When she emailed the jail to voice a concern, she heard nothing back. It was through a post on Instagram that she was alerted to the prisoners’ miseries.
Others held at the detention center wondered why they were not moved to another building on the same block that was part of the facility. According to Arthur Aidala, a lawyer who was visiting one of several clients at the jail, this building had heat and power. It houses mostly female inmates on two floors but is otherwise empty, he said, and while it would have been logistically challenging to move so many inmates at once, the jail moves them back and forth to court all the time.
Why the building did not resort to generator power was also left unexplained. “Can you imagine if this were an apartment building on the Upper East Side?’’ Mr. Aidala said. “But here, you have to consider who the tenant is and who the landlord is.”
The landlord, of course, is the federal government, led by a president who, two years ago at a speech on Long Island, suggested that police officers should not bother to protect the heads of suspects as they put them in police cars. He was speaking to law enforcement officials, and he told them they could “take the hand off,” a comment that elicited cheers from the audience.
Without a big push on social media from influential activists — Tamika Mallory, co-president of the Women’s March, was one of the organizers of the protest that began over the weekend — it is hard to say how much emotion the power failure and heating issues at the jail would have unleashed. How much is ignored because it can’t be distilled to one and a half minutes of haunting footage? The images of inmates banging on windows had supplied that — the sense of something dark and medieval.
The same jail had, in fact, been hit with a series of sexual assault cases in recent years — female inmates had accused guards of molesting them — but there was no similar outcry. Hunger is a big problem in this country, but hunger isn’t visual; there is no clear path to Instagram.
The Metropolitan Detention Center also finds itself in a place that can no longer be considered remote. Gentrification has changed that.
In recent years, an entire world of makers and designers and microbrewers, craft boutiques, ramen stands, artisanal chocolatiers, high-end furniture retailers and Citi Bikes has evolved around the jail in the form of Industry City, a work-life-retail experience on the waterfront in Sunset Park. If you were to occupy a cell in the back of the complex, for instance, you might have the bizarre fate of looking out at the ABC Carpet outlet down Second Avenue, which sits below the training facility of the Brooklyn Nets.
The obvious effect of all this is an influx of people into a part of the city that had for so long felt vacant. Last summer, the de Blasio administration released plans for a new network of neighborhood jails, four in total, spread across the city, as part of the effort to close Rikers Island. Nimbyism is sure to intervene, but one of the unspoken benefits of the proposed system is that the jails will sit in actual communities where people will see them on their way to work, to the gym, to the grocery store. And all secrets, in the end, are harder to keep in the daylight.
THE EMPIRE AND THE FIVE KINGS America’s Abdication and the Fate of the World By Bernard-Henri Lévy
 GULLIBLE SUPERPOWER U.S. Support for Bogus Foreign Democratic Movements By Ted Galen Carpenter
The American foreign policy establishment is two years into a prolonged existential crisis. It is watching a president spurn its expertise, attack its institutions and ridicule its most cherished assumptions. It gets much of the blame for a quarter-century of flailing hegemony, one characterized by, depending on whom you ask, too much foreign intervention (Kosovo, Iraq, Libya) or too little (Rwanda, Syria, Iran). In introspective moments, it asks itself whether anything it says or does matters at all.
But for all the turmoil and torment, that establishment is in fact converging around a stronger consensus than any it has held since the Cold War. After an era of uncontested American dominance, the thinking goes, we have entered a new era of rivalry. Or as the Trump administration’s National Security Strategy puts it, “After being dismissed as a phenomenon of an earlier century, great power competition returned.” Different camps and thinkers define the causes and contours of this rivalry in different ways: They may see the biggest challenge in Beijing or in Moscow or in Tehran or somewhere else. But the basic point has become uncontroversial.
What to do about it is a more contentious matter. Should the United States step up and fight for its interests and values, or hunker down and restrain its ambitions? Should it defend fellow democracies and reassure allies, or cede authority to other powers, even if that means some outcomes it might not like? Should it muster the resolve to do more or accept the necessity of doing less?
Two new books stake out positions at opposite poles of the debate. In “The Empire and the Five Kings,” the French philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy — a “committed intellectual,” in his own description — proclaims that the United States, now in a moment of doubt and retreat, must again take a stand for freedom. “Do not give in to discouragement,” exhorts the man usually referred to as B.H.L. “Do not become resigned.” In “Gullible Superpower,” Ted Galen Carpenter, a scholar at the libertarian Cato Institute, counters that nearly every American attempt to take such a seemingly heroic stand founders on messy foreign realities. The better course is a “return to an earlier, more prudent, realistic and sensible policy tradition.”
In the 1990s, at the apex of American dominance, one of Lévy’s compatriots dubbed the United States a “hyperpower.” It was said sneeringly, but Lévy embraces it: The United States “is an empire, if you will, but a recalcitrant one, whose nobility has always been to balk at imperialism.” His celebration of this American empire is soaring and sincere — “the second home of every free person on the planet” — and often incomprehensible, laced with name-dropping digressions, circuitous analogies and mixed metaphors.
Underneath the breezy Gallic grandiosity, Lévy delivers fairly ordinary analysis. The United States kept some semblance of decent order around the globe for decades but has given up this “noblest vocation” because of a combination of toxic politics and technology. “Trump and Zuckerberg, though they probably agree on nothing, are the two blades of a pair of scissors,” destroying democracy at home and leadership abroad. Into this “great vacuum left by the evaporation of the empire” have stepped Lévy’s “five kings” — China, Russia, Iran, Turkey and Saudi Arabia (together with its Sunni allies).
Lévy makes an ardent and mostly persuasive case about what dominance by these resurgent powers would mean for the world. “A friend of freedom,” he decrees, “must pray for the empire.” And for all his doomsaying, he sees basic weaknesses in these challengers that, with enough American resolve, will stop them from “implementing their grandiose dreams.” But his call to action seems to demand that the United States confront all five with the same urgency at the same time. Most problematically, his five kings include every Middle Eastern power center; taking on all of them simultaneously is unlikely to turn out well for anyone, except perhaps hard-liners in Moscow and Beijing, who would look on the resulting American quagmire with baffled surprise at their own good fortune.
Lévy begins and ends his book with the story of the Kurds, who joined with the United States and its allies to fight ISIS but then never got the backing they hoped for in support of their own independence. Despite his own efforts to rally American and European policymakers, the Kurds’ “sister democracies … uttered not a word as Kurdish houses in Kirkuk were gassed and ransacked, women raped, people tortured.” In recounting this tragedy, Lévy reflects not at all on the last time he made himself a player in such a cause: his effort, in 2011, to persuade the United States and Europe to intervene in Libya. That action stopped a possible massacre in Benghazi and helped bring about the murderous Muammar el-Qaddafi’s downfall, but it also stoked a bloody civil war that continues today. Lévy is less interested in weighing consequences than he is in celebrating the purity of intent, the nobility of the cause, the heroism of the stand.
That, to Carpenter, is exactly where American foreign policy has gone wrong. Since the 1980s, as he tells it, the United States has repeatedly fallen for the charm offensives of foreign actors — insurgent groups, protest movements, dissidents — who con Washington into reckless action. What Lévy sees as a virtuous hegemon, Carpenter sees as a naïve and hapless superpower playing the sucker to “foreign factions … adept at exploiting Americans’ sincere desire for the spread of enlightened liberal capitalist ideals.”
Carpenter marshals example after cringe-inducing example of American politicians and commentators hailing unsavory foreign movements as the “moral equal of our founding fathers” — as Ronald Reagan said of a Nicaraguan contra army led largely by officers loyal to a fallen dictator. In various Cold War proxy battles, in the Iraq war, in the debate over Syria, in the Libya intervention — again and again, predictions of a peaceful democratic future have yielded dismal results.
Yet by focusing on the gauzy myths that tend to dominate speeches and newspaper columns, Carpenter evades the harder questions and more cold-blooded calculations that lie behind them. (He also has the same fondness for overstatement and overreliance on sketchy evidence that he lambastes in others.) As often as not, high-flown rhetoric is deployed in the service of some other foreign policy goal; an American leader may have led with talk of democracy or human rights even when they are secondary to, or mere covers for, other, less idealistic considerations. Indeed, Carpenter concedes of several of his cases that a “strategic rationale” for some action existed, even if the exalted language used to sell it could not withstand scrutiny. 
For all their dissimilarity, Lévy and Carpenter share an unstated conviction that runs through most American debates about foreign policy: that all good things should come together. Like Lévy, we want every moral cause to also be strategically smart; like Carpenter, we want to believe that a choice made on prudential grounds won’t involve costs to ideals or values we hold dear. We want always to do well by doing good, and good by doing well. Unfortunately, in foreign policy, only in rare circumstances do all good things actually come together — and even less in a time of contested power than in a time of primacy. The trade-offs to come will be both wrenching and inescapable.
In the early days of the Cold War — the last time the American foreign policy establishment converged around a broad objective — one of the most influential “committed intellectuals,” to use Lévy’s term, was the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. Niebuhr was famous for his Serenity Prayer: “Grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can and the wisdom to know the difference.” If we are in fact entering a new era of great power competition, determining what we can and cannot change will be the most important, and the most difficult, task ahead. Carpenter makes a pointed case for serenity. Lévy issues a fervent call for courage. Neither offers much of the wisdom we’ll need to know the difference.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. “This is not a manufactured crisis. This is truly an emergency.”
Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, urged Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by supporting President Trump’s border wall, though it is not clear how a wall would alter the flow of asylum seekers or address their needs.
She was also defiant in the face of criticism of how the administration treats migrant families at the border, especially separating families.
Separately, in a setback for Mr. Trump, the U.S. trade deficit in goods ballooned to $891.3 billion in 2018, its highest level in history. The deficit expanded mainly because of the strong U.S. economy, which allowed Americans to purchase more from abroad, and the strong dollar, which raised the international prices of U.S. exports.
_____
2. Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, said that she had been raped by a superior officer while serving.
She made the disclosure at a Senate committee hearing about preventing sexual assault in the military, above, saying that she had nearly left the service. “I thought I was strong, but felt powerless,” she said. She stayed, she said, to be a voice for women: “It’s personal from two perspectives — as a commander who led my airmen into combat and as a survivor of rape and betrayal.”
Also on Capitol Hill, House Democrats were accusing their party’s leaders of treating Representative Ilhan Omar unfairly. They ultimately put off a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, as critics said Ms. Omar was unfairly singled out.
_____
3. The Supreme Court is getting an education in rap.
Hip-hop stars including Meek Mill, above, Fat Joe and 21 Savage filed a brief urging the court to hear the appeal of a Pittsburgh rapper challenging his conviction. The artist, Jamal Knox, who raps under the name Mayhem Mal, was sent to prison for two years for threatening police officers in his song.
“A person unfamiliar with what today is the nation’s most dominant musical genre or one who hears music through the auditory lens of older genres such as jazz, country or symphony,” they wrote, “may mistakenly interpret a rap song as a true threat of violence.”
_____
4. Mark Zuckerberg said he would shift Facebook’s platforms to emphasize private, encrypted communication, a major turn from public sharing.
After grappling with years of scandal over data privacy, the Facebook founder and chief executive said he wanted to create systems that would offer users a “digital living room” where they can expect their discussions to be fully private.
In other tech news, Tesla is shutting down most of its dealerships — just three months after a sprint to open new locations.
_____
5. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend tried to defuse a political scandal gripping Canada.
In testimony before a parliamentary committee, the adviser, Gerald Butts, pictured above, denied that any improper pressure was put on the former justice minister to settle a criminal case. He said the government wanted to consider a negotiated settlement for a company accused of bribery because thousands of Canadian jobs were at stake.
Mr. Butts’s testimony may help mitigate the crisis, which has threatened the prime minister’s political future. We broke down how Mr. Trudeau became ensnared.
_____
6. The chef Mario Batali has surrendered his stake in all of his restaurants.
Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.
The Bastianich family, which has partnered with Mr. Batali for 20 years, and other partners are regrouping to form a new company. Mr. Batali is also selling his shares in Eataly, the global chain of luxury Italian supermarkets.
In other #MeToo developments, R. Kelly gave his first interview since being charged with sexual abuse, in which he screamed, cursed and pleaded to the camera. He now is heading back to jail for not paying child support.
_____
7. Good news and bad news in the fight to combat overprescription of opioid painkillers: Prescriptions fell. Chronic pain patients have suffered.
In a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, say that federal guidelines aimed at curbing addiction are harming pain patients who find relief only through high doses of opioids. Above, a doctor and a pain patient in Nebraska in 2016.
They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away, leaving them in withdrawal and in misery, some to the point of suicide.
_____
8. Thousands of runners, wrestlers, pictured above, soccer players and fitness fanatics exercise every evening on the beaches and streets of Senegal’s capital, where exercise is a way of life.
With every breath, they inhale increasingly dangerous air. Dakar’s air exceeds more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization for levels of damaging airborne particulate. One official estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.
“Sometimes it feels like I’m about to get choked,” one champion swimmer said.
_____
9. “A reverie, a meditation, a therapeutic retreat, a musicians’ playground.”
Our music critic offers a glowing review of Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home.” The album “is built for gentle, repeated immersion, not instant gratification,” he writes, one example of Solange’s step away from ordinary pop expectations.
We also have a review of the latest installment of “Captain Marvel,” starring Brie Larson as the spacefaring comic-book superhero. It is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008, but the first to focus principally on a woman.
_____
10. Finally, today is the first day of Lent for many Christians around the world.
But before giving something up, residents in Hamtramck, Mich., have long celebrated Fat Tuesday with paczki, Polish pastries. Pronounced “PAWN-chkee,” the doughy pastries are filled with custard or fruit. Lines form well before sunrise at bakeries around the city. Above, the New Martha Washington Bakery on Tuesday.
Residents see parallels in the stories of the Polish immigrants who came decades ago and those of the newer arrivals from the Middle East and Asia.
“I haven’t seen Hamtramck’s identity really change in 100 years,” the mayor said. “We’re an immigrant city.”
Have a sweet night.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
The secrets came directly from the phones of President Lenín Moreno of Ecuador: intimate pictures of him and his family on vacation, text messages from his wife, even a photograph of the president himself in a posh bedroom, eating a lobster in bed.
The material, published last month on an anonymous website, was particularly embarrassing because Mr. Moreno was in a bruising national fight over his austerity measures. But rather than mount a defense, the president played the victim: He blamed WikiLeaks, whose founder, Julian Assange, had spent the last seven years holed up in the country’s London embassy.
WikiLeaks’ actions were “despicable,” said the country’s vice president on television, vowing to take action. The group denied leaking the information, but on Thursday Ecuador made good on its threat — opening the door to British police officers who carted away Mr. Assange.
With that, Mr. Assange’s long refuge inside the Ecuadorean Embassy finally came to an end, the capstone of an international cat-and-mouse game involving stolen document dumps, promises of more to come, failed efforts to contain him and accusations of blackmail.
Even as Ecuador harbored Mr. Assange from international prosecution, he and WikiLeaks wielded the threat of releasing damaging information against the Ecuadorean government.
In October 2016, as WikiLeaks was releasing thousands of emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign, Ecuador restricted Mr. Assange’s access to the internet, citing his interference in a foreign election.
The United States may have played a central role in the effort to corral Mr. Assange. On Oct. 14, with the emails upending the campaign and the election just weeks away, a confidante of the Clintons and a top aide to Secretary of State John Kerry showed up at a dinner party hosted by the Ecuadorean ambassador before a ball, lingering with him as other guests left, several attendees said.
Mr. Assange’s internet was curtailed by the Ecuadorean Embassy the very next day.
But WikiLeaks quickly retaliated, issuing a cryptic message that a leak against Ecuador was on its way. The tactic seemed to work. Two months later, Mr. Assange said in an interview that his internet had been restored.
Mr. Assange has been hailed by many around the world as a champion of transparency and a casualty of his own success at revealing secrets.
In Britain, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, said this week that his country should oppose the extradition of Mr. Assange to the United States — where he faces a charge of conspiring to hack a Pentagon computer network in 2010 — because the WikiLeaks founder was being pursued for “exposing evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan.”
Diane Abbott, another Labour Party official, made the same assertion, arguing that Mr. Assange “is not being pursued to protect U.S. national security; he’s being pursued because he has exposed wrongdoing by U.S. administrations and their military forces.”
But Ecuadorean officials contend that the expulsion comes from an extensive list of transgressions by Mr. Assange that soured their long — and often strained — relationship.
In explaining his decision, Mr. Moreno accused Mr. Assange of installing electronic distortion equipment in the embassy, blocking security cameras, confronting and mistreating guards and gaining access to security files without permission.
On Thursday, the government said it had also arrested a computer programmer in Ecuador in connection with the Assange case, contending that WikiLeaks had interfered in Ecuador’s domestic political affairs.
WikiLeaks insisted it was not involved in the hack of Mr. Moreno’s phones, and that the Ecuadorean government was using the episode as a false pretext to toss out Mr. Assange.
It was no secret that the United States wanted him removed. It was also clear that Mr. Moreno is eager for international loans and better relations with the United States after the tensions that festered under his leftist predecessor, who granted Mr. Assange shelter in the embassy.
“I inherited this situation,” Mr. Moreno said in a video address this week.
Fernando Cutz, a former senior adviser to H.R. McMaster, the former national security adviser, and a Latin America policy specialist at the White House, acknowledged that American officials regularly spoke with their Ecuadorean counterparts about handing over Mr. Assange.
But Mr. Cutz argued that Ecuadorean officials did not simply cave to American demands. They wanted Mr. Assange gone as well, he said.
“We would definitely raise it with Ecuador,” Mr. Cutz said. “It was a bilateral irritant, without a doubt. But I don’t think the U.S. pressure ended up being the reason for this move. Bettering relations with the U.S. was just the icing on the cake for Moreno. Assange was his own worst enemy.”
Mr. Assange’s odyssey with Ecuador began in 2012, when he skipped a bail hearing to avoid being extradited to Sweden, where he was wanted for questioning in connection to accusations of “rape, sexual molestation and unlawful coercion.”
Ecuador’s president at the time, Rafael Correa, had been criticized in his own country for a crackdown against the press. But in Mr. Assange, the Ecuadorean president found a symbol of his challenge to the United States, which he called an imperialist power. Mr. Assange was free to stay in the embassy as long as he pleased, Mr. Correa said.
But by 2016, a change in power was afoot in both the United States and in Ecuador. Hillary Clinton, who had run the State Department during the enormous leak of information by WikiLeaks in 2010, was running for president. Mr. Assange also had reason to worry about the coming election in Ecuador, where his stay in the embassy was becoming a campaign issue as well.
On Oct. 7, 2016, a tape was leaked showing Mrs. Clinton’s opponent, Donald J. Trump, boasting of sexually harassing women while filming a segment for the show “Access Hollywood,” sending Mr. Trump’s campaign into a major crisis.
Less than an hour later, WikiLeaks began publishing the first of thousands of hacked emails from Mr. Podesta’s account, creating a different controversy in the Clinton camp.
WikiLeaks continued to release the emails throughout October on a daily basis. American intelligence agents later concluded that the documents had been hacked by Russian operatives and laundered through WikiLeaks.
When Ecuador restricted Mr. Assange’s internet access in response, Mr. Correa’s administration said that it had acted on its own accord, not because of pressure from the United States. A spokesman for Mr. Kerry also denied that the Obama administration played any role.
But during the encounter on Oct. 14 — the night before Mr. Assange’s internet access was restricted — Patsy Thomasson, a veteran of the Clinton White House, and a senior aide to Mr. Kerry attended a dinner at the Ecuadorean Embassy hosted by Francisco Borja, the ambassador of Ecuador.
Attendees interviewed said it struck them as odd that such high-powered players would decide to attend a party hosted by a small country’s ambassador. They noted that neither Ms. Thomasson nor the Kerry aide was dressed in black tie for the ball, and that both stayed behind with the ambassador after other guests left for the event.
Ms. Thomasson, reached by phone, said she had been invited at the very last minute by someone whose wife couldn’t come, and that she did not recall having any conversations with the ambassador, “much less about Julian Assange.”
WikiLeaks struck back soon after. On Oct. 16, the day after Mr. Assange’s internet was restricted, WikiLeaks tweeted a code, known in its parlance as an “insurance file,” and signaled that an upcoming leak involving Ecuador was imminent.
According to former WikiLeaks insiders, Mr. Assange had damaging information about Ecuador and wasn’t bluffing.
Mr. Assange certainly seemed to have acquired compromising material. In 2015, Cynthia Viteri, a prominent Ecuadorean politician, and Fernando Villavicencio, an Ecuadorean political journalist, had gotten secret documents showing that Ecuador was running a surveillance program, using an Italian company to spy on journalists and political enemies, in addition to spying on Mr. Assange at the embassy.
Mr. Villavicencio said he sent the material to a WikiLeaks email address, hoping the organization would publish the information. He eventually published the documents himself. WikiLeaks never did, though it is clear from leaked 2015 chat group logs that Mr. Assange and his inner circle were aware of them.
Mr. Villavicencio said he believed the documents he sent to WikiLeaks may have been among those that Mr. Assange had threatened to publish.
“There was very valuable information, information of millions of dollars in expenses, tens of millions of dollars in contracts to foreign companies to do illegal hacking — and it surprised me it didn’t get out,” he said. “It was information of international and national interest.”
Nothing ever came of the Ecuador-related “insurance file” WikiLeaks tweeted about in October 2016.
“From 2011, WikiLeaks did not leak relevant information regarding Correa’s government,” Mr. Villavicencio said. “That certainly shows hypocrisy and a double standard, contradicting journalism principles.”
The controversy was just the beginning of Mr. Assange’s difficulties. Mr. Moreno took over as president in May 2017 and soon broke with the policies of his predecessor.
Advisers to Mr. Moreno met with Paul Manafort, who had served as President Trump’s campaign chairman, and raised the possibility of releasing Mr. Assange in exchange for concessions like debt relief. Mr. Moreno said repeatedly that Mr. Assange’s time in the embassy should not be forever.
Then, Mr. Moreno’s government was hit by a familiar disruption: more leaks.
In March, an anonymous website, INApapers.org, published around 200 private emails related to Mr. Moreno, text messages written by his wife and photos of the president and his family taking luxurious vacations in Europe.
Mr. Moreno’s government was quick to blame the release on WikiLeaks, which it says Mr. Assange still controls.
On Thursday, Mr. Moreno repeated the claim, telling Ecuadorean journalists that Mr. Assange didn’t have the right to “hack private accounts or phones.”
HARRISBURG, Pa. — The Pennsylvania House of Representatives moved Wednesday to toughen penalties for people who do not report suspicions about repeated child sexual abuse and make it explicit that nondisclosure terms in contracts cannot prevent people from talking to police in child molestation investigations.
Both proposals are based on recommendations in a landmark grand jury report last year into the sexual abuse of children by about 300 Roman Catholic clergy in the state, going back seven decades.
Lawmakers voted 162-22 for the reporting proposal .
The only member who spoke in opposition was Rep. Paul Schemel, R-Franklin, who said it will be hard for people to remember, decades later, why they did not report suspected abuse.
"Our due process rights under the law are slipping away through our fingers while we do nothing," Schemel said.
Lawmakers are also considering legislation to eliminate the criminal statute of limitations for child sexual abuse. If that passes, it will also apply to mandated reporters who fail to properly report ongoing abuse.
Also Wednesday, state representatives unanimously approved a bill that says nondisclosure agreements , often part of civil settlements in abuse cases, should specify that they do not prohibit cooperation with police.
The main sponsor, Rep. Tarah Toohil, R-Luzerne, said those contracts are already unenforceable, but the bill's additional provisions would spell it out, "written in black and white."
Both bills were sent to the Senate. There, the top lawyer for majority Republicans said, they will be reviewed to see how they compare to legislation that was drafted in that chamber last year but never brought up for a vote.
"The grand jury made the general recommendations, but no precise language was offered. If the House bills are consistent to what we drafted last year, then we will likely consider the bills," said Drew Crompton, chief of staff to Senate President Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati, R-Jefferson.
Toohil said targets of the grand jury investigation misused nondisclosure agreements to attempt to silence abuse victims and keep them from cooperating with police.
The state House has also sent the Senate legislation based another grand jury recommendation: a constitutional amendment that would create a two-year window to allow victims to bring civil claims over abuse that would otherwise be too old to pursue.
The state's attorney general, Democrat Josh Shapiro, said the House action represented a clear step forward. Shapiro's office oversaw the grand jury investigation.
"Just as our commonwealth was a leader in investigating and prosecuting clergy sexual abuse, it is imperative that Pennsylvania also now be a leader in enacting reforms to protect victims and ensure this kind of abuse and cover-up can never happen again," Shapiro said in a statement. "I stand with survivors as we urge the Pennsylvania Senate to swiftly pass the grand jury reforms."
Good Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)
China’s vice premier, Liu He, is scheduled to hold face-to-face trade talks in Washington today, before attending a meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office. There is still plenty to be discussed.
“The tone of the negotiations between the two nations has grown more stern,” according to Ana Swanson and Alan Rappeport of the NYT, citing unnamed sources. “American officials have come to realize that China has been repackaging promised reforms and trying to sell them as concessions to Mr. Trump,” which has “caused deep frustration among the administration’s China hard-liners.”
Here are some of the key issues on the table:
• Trade deficits. The two nations have “reached consensus on how to alleviate the trade imbalances,” Reuters reports. “Washington and Beijing are looking at a 10-item list for that, including additional Chinese purchases of agricultural produce, energy and goods such as semiconductors.”
• Currency stability. U.S. negotiators are said to be demanding that China stop devaluing its currency as part of a deal. But CNBC reports that such a measure is “likely to encounter little resistance from the Chinese” because the nation’s central bank also wants the same thing, according to economists who spoke with the network.
• Settling chip spats. “U.S. and Chinese negotiators are trying to resolve a long-running dispute between semiconductor rivals Micron Technology and Fujian Jinhua as part of a larger trade agreement,” the FT reports.
• Enforcement mechanisms. “Negotiators have struggled this week to overcome differences on specific language to address tough U.S. demands for structural changes in China’s economy,” Reuters reports, including “an enforcement mechanism to ensure that China complies with any agreements.”
“The final terms of the deal are likely to be worked out in a meeting or phone call between Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump himself,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Rappeport write. That means that Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, must now “narrow the suite of disagreements down to just a handful of remaining issues for the president to negotiate.” It’s unclear how long that might take.
The processed food giant announced yesterday that it had taken a $15.4 billion write-down, earned less than expected and been subpoenaed by the S.E.C. Unsurprisingly, that spooked investors and raised big questions about its strategy.
Blame changing tastes for the write-down. Peter Eavis of the NYT writes that the hit affects the company’s U.S. and Canadian operations and the Kraft and Oscar Mayer brands, and “appears to come from a shift in how consumers eat, emphasizing fresh food over processed products.” The earnings miss, Kraft Heinz said, was because it didn’t deliver enough cost cuts.
And accounting questions brought the S.E.C. inquiry. Kraft Heinz said that an accounting cost related to vendor contracts should have been recorded in previous quarters, but that the misstatement “was not material.”
Investors, including Warren Buffett, also took a big hit. Shares fell by nearly 21 percent in after-hours trading. Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which is one of Kraft Heinz’s largest shareholders, saw the value of its holdings drop nearly $3 billion yesterday, to $12.9 billion.
Kraft Heinz may need a reboot. The company’s fundamental business model — promoted by 3G Capital, the investment firm that pushed Kraft and Heinz to merge — is buying companies and then cutting costs. But the strategy could sputter, writes Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Opinion: “Who would want to sell to Kraft Heinz now?”
As the British Parliament heads toward a vote next week that could strip control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May, there is confusion about the current state of play.
There was “no breakthrough” in talks between two of Mrs. May’s key ministers and E.U. officials during meetings in Brussels yesterday, according to Bloomberg. Her government has been trying to convince Europe to renegotiate the existing withdrawal plan, but E.U. officials have repeatedly declined to do so. Mrs. May is expected to hold more talks with E.U. officials at a meeting in Egypt this weekend.
And there are unclear signals about progress. Philip Hammond, Britain’s finance minister, said last night that a revised deal could be put to a vote in Parliament as soon as next week. Unnamed government officials have since tried to play down those claims. One unidentified source told Reuters, “It doesn’t feel like we will have a deal by next week.”
But the E.U. reportedly expects a delay. “Discussions between the two sides suggest May will ask for an extension to the two-year negotiating period if the British Parliament backs the Brexit deal but it isn’t signed off until an E.U. summit on March 21-22,” Bloomberg reports. “That is emerging as the EU’s current plan.”
More Brexit news: Euro-skeptic Conservative Party lawmakers are threatening to back out of crucial votes, which could paralyze Mrs. May’s Brexit efforts. A no-deal Brexit could cause chaos for the London-Paris train line run by Eurostar. Mrs. May’s government is said to have delayed a report on the impact of tariffs to avoid a backlash. And deal or no, Britain’s currency is in trouble.
The Trump administration has been branding Huawei as a threat to national security for months now. But yesterday, President Trump hinted that he may be softening his stance on the company.
Mr. Trump wants 5G in the U.S. “as soon as possible” according to a tweet he posted yesterday. But, intriguingly, he wants the U.S. to win the race for the next-generation wireless technology “not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies.” (He also wants 6G technology, which doesn’t yet exist.)
That could be seen as an olive branch to China. “Some officials in Mr. Trump’s administration have been pushing for him to sign an order that could result in U.S. companies being barred from buying Huawei technology at all,” the FT reports. “Experts believe the president’s tweet signaled he was backing away from such an action, possibly as a way to soften up Beijing for a wider trade deal.”
It comes as Huawei is winning over U.S. allies. Despite pressure from Washington to exclude the company’s equipment from national wireless networks, countries like India and Canada are continuing to rely on Huawei products because a) they work, and b) they’re cheap. And Britain and Germany both seem to be open to using the company’s hardware.
Under Armour’s board grilled the athletic equipment company’s founder and chief, Kevin Plank, last year, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources. Its focus: his relationship with Stephanie Ruhle, an MSNBC anchor — and his apparent business guru.
• “Ms. Ruhle has traveled with Mr. Plank and Under Armour staff on his private jet, they said, and given the C.E.O. her input on a range of business matters.”
• Among the topics: How to handle bad press over a sneaker model and recommending that Mr. Plank get involved with the White House, at a time when other C.E.O.s were keeping their distance.
• “Ms. Ruhle’s involvement at the Baltimore company was unusual and problematic, these people said, and left employees unsure how to handle her feedback because many people believed she was romantically involved with Mr. Plank.”
• “The board asked Mr. Plank about the nature of the relationship and whether company assets were used, these people said.”
• A spokeswoman for Under Armour said the two are friends, and that Mr. Plank keeps clear lines between the company and his private life.
• “The company has grappled with complaints about its culture, including strip-club visits and inappropriate behavior by executives. Mr. Plank has spoken openly about the company’s shortcomings and vowed to make improvements.”
Simultaneous rebounds in the stock and bond markets are sending conflicting signals about the direction of the U.S. economy, writes Stephen Grocer of the NYT:
• “The S&P 500 is off to its best start to a year in nearly a decade, up 11 percent so far.”
• “Bond investors have taken a more pessimistic view on the economy’s fate. Prices on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note have risen this year, pushing down its yield to 2.69 percent, from 3.23 percent just three months ago.”
• “Stock and bond prices are not supposed to rise and fall in tandem. Historically, when investors fret about the future, they pull money out of stock markets and buy relatively safe United States Treasury securities.”
• “Investors are in a familiar situation: An economy that isn’t strong enough to compel the Fed to raise rates but is strong enough for corporate America to keep expanding its bottom line.”
• “But how long this so-called Goldilocks scenario can persist will depend on the Fed’s plan for rates and the United States-China trade negotiations.”
Mark Frissora will stay on as C.E.O. of Caesars Entertainment longer than expected, as the casino company faces pressure from Carl Icahn.
Spencer Rascoff stepped down as C.E.O. of Zillow, the real-estate company. He’ll be replaced by his co-founder, Rich Barton.
Reggie Fils-Aime will retire as president of Nintendo of America. He’ll be succeeded by Doug Bowser.
Lisa Borders resigned as the C.E.O. of Time’s Up, the anti-sexual-harassment advocacy group, after her son was accused of sexual assault.
Deals
• Pinterest filed confidentially to go public, becoming the latest tech unicorn to seek an I.P.O. (NYT)
• Barrick Gold has reportedly considered a takeover bid for fellow miner Newmont, whose market value yesterday was about $19 billion. (Bloomberg)
• The food delivery company DoorDash raised $400 million at a $7.1 billion valuation. (NYT)
• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $1 billion investment in Flexport, a freight company. (CNBC)
Politics and policy
• The Green New Deal is technologically possible. But it’s politically far-fetched. (NYT)
• Testimony that Dr. Richard Sackler, the former president of the maker of OxyContin, gave in a 2015 deposition appears to contradict the findings of a Justice Department report. (NYT)
• A federal judge ruled that prosecutors, including the current labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, violated the law by not disclosing that they had struck a nonprosecution agreement with Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire accused of molesting young girls, in 2008. (WaPo)
• The N.J. State Senate passed a bill to bar President Trump from the state’s 2020 ballot unless he releases his tax returns. David Leonhardt of the NYT argues that House Democrats should renew their demand for the documents as well. (Hill, NYT Opinion)
Trade
• One party totally happy with the U.S.-China trade war: Russian soybean farmers. (WSJ)
• E.U. officials are set to debate when to start trade talks with President Trump. (Reuters)
• Chinese ports have banned Australian coal imports indefinitely. (Nikkei Asian Review)
Tech
• Apple is teaming up with Goldman Sachs to create a credit card that provides extra account features on iPhones. The tech company is also working with Ant Financial to offer interest-free iPhone financing in China. (WSJ, Reuters)
• Google will no longer force employees to settle disputes with the company in private arbitration. (NYT)
• Tesla’s Model 3 lost its “recommended” status from Consumer Reports. But the cars are finally being delivered in China. (WSJ)
• Verizon plans to roll out 5G wireless connections in 30 unnamed U.S. cities this year. (Verge)
• How China tracks people using DNA. (NYT)
Best of the rest
• Ford is investigating how it tested vehicle emissions and fuel efficiency after employees reported possible flaws in its analyses. (NYT)
• The $15 minimum wage doesn’t just improve lives. It can save them, too. (NYT)
• Could money laundering be widespread across Scandinavia’s banks? (Bloomberg)
• How China could both calm its trade war and make itself richer. (Economist)
• Delta’s C.E.O., Ed Bastian, says “leadership is not a popularity contest.” (NYT)
Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.
We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.
Two JetBlue flight attendants sued the airline and two of its pilots in federal court this week, alleging that the pilots drugged them both during a layover last year and that one of the pilots raped one of the women and another co-worker.
The lawsuit also accuses the airline of failing to take disciplinary action against the pilots when the women reported the assault last year.
The women, referred to as Jane Doe 1 and Jane Doe 2, are seeking unspecified damages from the airline and the pilots, Dan Watson and Eric Johnson, for aggravated sexual abuse, assault and battery, sex discrimination and civil rights violations. The lawsuit was filed on Monday in United States District Court in the Eastern District of New York.
“The allegations in the complaint are obviously very serious and what happened to these women is horrific, but the bigger concern is how JetBlue handled it and the fact that no corrective action was taken,” their lawyer, Abe Melamed, said Thursday.
“One of the plaintiffs has continued to bump into one of the pilots and has an immediate visceral reaction and goes to the bathroom and vomits every time it happens,” he added. “They feel like this is a large part of what airline culture is. It lends itself to these sorts of issues.”
The suit says the airline’s inaction after it learned of the alleged assault amounted to the company “allowing sex discrimination, gender discrimination and a hostile work environment.”
Representatives from JetBlue declined to answer questions about the lawsuit, but the company said in a statement that it “takes allegations of violent or inappropriate behavior very seriously and investigates such claims thoroughly.”
“We work to create a respectful workplace for all our crew members where they feel welcome and safe,” the company said.
A representative for Akerman L.L.P., the law firm that represented the airline and the pilots in an earlier stage of the case last summer, did not respond to a request for comment Thursday night.
The episode happened in Puerto Rico last May when the plaintiffs and a third female crew member, who is not a party to the lawsuit, were on an overnight layover in San Juan after working a flight from Washington, the lawsuit said.
After checking in to their hotel, the women went to the beach, where they noticed two men nearby who were drinking beers they had brought in a lunch bag, court filings said. The group began chatting and soon realized they all worked for JetBlue.
Mr. Johnson handed a beer to one of the women, who drank some and passed it to the other two, the lawsuit said. “The beer was laced with a drug, and after that point, the rest of the night became a blur,” the lawsuit states.
The lawsuit said that after the women became incapacitated, the pilots took them to the InterContinental Hotel. Neither plaintiff could remember leaving the beach or how they got to the hotel, the lawsuit said.
Mr. Watson took Jane Doe 2 to her room but did not rape her because she was vomiting from the drugs, which he found to be “a turnoff,” the lawsuit said. Mr. Watson left her room “after having been scratched” but was accused in the lawsuit of drugging the woman “with the intent to rape.”
In court filings, Jane Doe 1 said her first memory after being on the beach was of Mr. Johnson raping her while her co-worker, the third woman, lay beside her. Court filings said Jane Doe 1 “felt the influence of the drug” but “was unable to react to the situation” and “was simply aware that it was happening.”
The lawsuit said that after Mr. Johnson raped Jane Doe 1, he raped her co-worker and then told the women, “Thank you for making my fantasy come true.”
The women awoke the next morning, still ill from the drugs, and worked together on a flight to Newark, where they talked to each other about the night before, court filings said.
Jane Doe 1 emailed Mr. Johnson to ask if he knew whether he had any sexually transmitted diseases, and he responded that he would get tested. When she returned to her home in Riverton, Utah, Jane Doe 1 went to a hospital to report that she had been raped.
While there she was tested for S.T.D.s and learned that she had been infected with human papillomavirus by Mr. Johnson, the lawsuit said.
 After nearly 20 years, Tyler Perry is making his final appearances as Madea onscreen, in “A Madea Family Funeral,” due March 1, and onstage in “Madea’s Farewell Tour” running through May.
When I was a kid, my mother, Maxine, would take me into the projects in New Orleans for her regular Friday night card game. This was no bridge game with a table of proper ladies — this was an apartment full of sharp-witted, drinking, cussing, smoking, strong, irreverent but caring women. I can clearly remember sitting on the concrete floor, choking from the smoke and covering my ears from the loud laughter and blasting blues music. Every now and again I would listen to these women talk about the woes in their lives and relationships, but no sooner had sadness entered the room than one of them would make a joke and the laughter would start all over again.
Looking back on this now, I realize that I was in a master class and my 6-year-old brain was soaking it all in. It was in those moments that I learned that laughter can stand arm in arm with agony.
Later when my mother and I were home, and my father would fly off into his usual fits of abusive rage, I quickly used my newfound tactics on my mother. After he left the room, I would walk in and imitate her and those card-playing women, and eventually she’d laugh. That laugh was medicine for my young soul.
Now I look back on a lot of my early writing and I feel that I was subconsciously talking to my mother. I was carrying her and those beautiful, powerful, strong black women in my spirit. And much to the dismay of my critics, I’m pretty sure that this is how and why I started putting very serious subject matter right alongside humor in my work. I knew that my audience was full of women like the ones that I loved so much growing up.
To that end, when I first did the tough-talking, truth-telling Madea at the Regal Theater in Chicago almost 20 years ago, I had no idea that imitating my mother would end up bringing joy to millions of people around the world. I thought I was just an actor donning a costume to entertain in a live comedic play. Most of the show was full of over-the-top jokes that brought lots of laughter, but around the last 30 minutes something happened. Madea got the opportunity to riff about pain and heartache, forgiveness, and God and faith. When I got to those life lessons, something happened. There was utter silence in the theaters, and it became so clear to me that the audience was hanging on her every word.
I understood very early on that this mostly blue-collar African-American audience was feeling inspired. They were getting answers to a lot of what was going on in our community that no one was talking about. I was blown away that somehow this ridiculous-looking 6-foot-6 guy in a dress had found a way to do for this audience the same thing that I had done for my mother. I could lift them with humor and use that laughter as an anesthetic and talk about really deep, sensitive issues that were destroying so many of us — things like rape and molestation and the inability to forgive.
This was further confirmed when I started receiving messages like “Madea did in two hours what my family hasn’t been able to do in 12 years — convince my sister to finally leave an abusive relationship.” I understood then how important it was to continue in the rawness of what I had created. To continue speaking a language that was a shorthand my audience and I understood. To continue to break all the traditional rules of storytelling.
If these strong, nurturing black women from my childhood knew that their stories and strengths had inspired me to pay homage to them and that this loving tribute had moved, helped and lifted people all around the world, they would be so proud.
For these reasons, I wrestled for awhile with the question of the right time to end the character. But then I thought — this is the year I’m turning 50. There’s much more I want to do, so many more stories I want to tell and more roles I want to play. I was thrilled to be Colin Powell in “Vice” and Tanner Bolt in “Gone Girl,” and I’m looking forward to more opportunities like those. But that old broad has been good to me, so who knows — maybe one day I’ll tell the story of Madea in the ’70s and hire a real actress to play the role. But the time of playing her has come to an end.
I have to say it’s very evident that the audience is not ready to say goodbye to her either: 25,000 to 30,000 people still show up every week to the Madea Farewell Play tour. And as always, the last half-hour of the show is the only time I don’t feel ridiculous in that dress, because I’m doing what the character was created to do.
I recently got a call from Oprah telling me that the girls at her school in South Africa were talking about the lessons Madea taught them in my movies and plays, lessons like self-esteem, respecting yourself, and staying strong. I’ll admit that my resolve to let Madea go wavered again, but even with those wonderful words of inspiration, I feel that it’s time.
It has always and will always be my hope that something this character has done or said has made someone’s life better. And that some little child who is sitting on the floor with their mother in pain can play one of these movies or shows and they both can smile together. She’s been that for me and I hope she continues to be that for the world.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Boeing simulator tests reveal more details about doomed flights, Cyclone Idai displaces hundreds of thousands of people and China alters “Bohemian Rhapsody.” Here’s the latest:
During tests last week that recreated the scenario on the doomed Lion Air flight in October, pilots discovered they had less than 40 seconds to override a new automated system on the 737 Max 8 jets.
The tests simulated a single sensor failing, which triggered software designed to help prevent a stall. To keep the plane from going into an unrecoverable nosedive in less than a minute, the pilots had to make a series of rapid-fire control changes.
The pilots in the tests succeeded, but they had a good understanding of how the system worked. In the Lion Air crash, pilots who had not been alerted to the system tried more than two dozen times to override the plane’s automated response.
Software update: Boeing is expected to propose changes to give pilots more control of the system and make it less likely to trigger erroneously, according to three people familiar with the matter.
Next: A Senate committee will question U.S. aviation regulators on Wednesday about the approval process for the Boeing 737 Max 8 jets, and why they agreed with Boeing that pilots didn’t need to be trained on the new system.
Cyclone Idai, which delivered heavy rains, floods and winds to Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi, created a crisis on par with those in war-torn Yemen, Syria and South Sudan, according to the U.N.
At least 600,000 people have been displaced, water and food are in short supply, and the first cases of cholera are being reported by the Red Cross.
Death tolls are uncertain, and the extent of the storm’s damage is still emerging. In Mozambique, which was especially hard hit, the government estimates that at least 400 people have died.
How you can help: Here’s a list of aid organizations that have begun a broad effort to provide food, shelter and medicine to those affected by the cyclone.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on his way back to Israel from Washington to confront an escalating conflict with Hamas, said that President Trump’s recognition of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights set a precedent for territories captured during wars.
“When you start wars of aggression, you lose territory, do not come and claim it afterwards. It belongs to us,” he said. “Everyone says you can’t hold an occupied territory, but this proves you can. If occupied in a defensive war, then it’s ours.”
The remarks will most likely sway right-wing Israelis in general elections in two weeks. It could also pave the way for the annexation of parts of the occupied West Bank.
Context: Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria during the Six-Day War in 1967. By contrast, Israel contends that the West Bank wasn’t part of any sovereign state before the country captured it, also in 1967, and therefore considers it a disputed territory rather than occupied.
A poll in Israel found that 42 percent of voters support the annexation of parts of the West Bank, even those who support a two-state solution with Palestine.
One of China’s most prestigious universities started an investigation into a law professor who published a series of essays warning of heavy-handed repression under President Xi Jinping.
Prof. Xu Zhangrun of Tsinghua University in Beijing published a passionate essay last summer denouncing Mr. Xi’s authoritarian tendencies that was widely shared across the country, despite censorship in China.
Why it matters: Tsinghua University is an internationally reputable school that draws foreign academics and donors, making Professor Xu’s case a warning sign abroad about the ruling party’s tightening controls on dissent.
Canada: The country granted asylum to a Filipino woman who in 2013 briefly opened her Hong Kong apartment to Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who revealed some of the U.S.’s most closely guarded surveillance programs. She and her daughter arrived on Monday, and they are to live in Montreal.
Cardinal Pell: Dozens of prominent news outlets and journalists in Australia have been ordered to answer accusations that they violated a gag order barring coverage of the trial of Cardinal Pell, a former Vatican official who was convicted in December of molesting children. They will appear in court on April 15.
Australia: Two officials from the country’s anti-immigration One Nation party said recordings of them discussing how the party could “own” the Australian Senate and House of Representatives with a $20 million donation from the American gun lobby shouldn’t be taken seriously because they had taken place after “a few drinks.”
Samsung: The South Korean electronics giant warned that it would report disappointing financial results because of slumping prices for chips and LCD screens amid “weakening overall demand.”
Taliban: Five men held at the U.S. detention camp at Guantánamo Bay for 13 years now sit across the negotiating table from their captors in talks over the U.S. troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, a twist that underscores the winding, contradictory nature of America’s longest war.
The Sacklers: The family, which owns Purdue Pharma, the producer of the opioid OxyContin, will pay nearly $275 million to settle a closely watched lawsuit brought by the state of Oklahoma that accused the company of igniting the opioid crisis. And major museums, including the National Portrait Gallery and the Tate in London and the Guggenheim in New York, are turning down donations from the family’s prominent charities.
Inside The Times: The photographer Christopher Payne spent two years capturing the marvel and unexpected beauty of our printing plant in New York, where machines the size of large houses churn out newspapers.
China: The version of “Bohemian Rhapsody,” the Queen biopic, screening in the country omits several scenes, including one in which the band’s lead singer, Freddie Mercury, tells his fiancée that he’s not straight.
Perspective: In an essay for our Well section, a senior at Yale argues that the college admissions scandal and the lawsuit against Harvard have special resonance for Asian-Americans like herself, whose parents often make great sacrifices of time and money for their children’s education.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Craving pasta? Ricotta cheese gnocchi with brown butter and sage is a good way to go.
The key to overcoming procrastination is to understand that it’s not the result of laziness or mismanaging time, but of avoiding unpleasant emotions.
Horticulture therapy — gardening — can help hospital patients recover.
“Boeing” is synonymous with airplanes — though maybe it should be spelled Böing.
William Boeing, the company’s founder, was the son of a German immigrant-turned-lumber-tycoon, and seems to have inherited his father’s business acumen in addition to the Americanized version of their family name.
According to Mr. Boeing’s biography on the company’s website, he started flying as a hobby around 1915 and quickly felt that airplanes could make a worthwhile business.
“Convinced that there was a definite future in aviation, I became interested in the construction as well as the flying of aircraft,” he once told an interviewer.
That interest eventually led to the Boeing Airplane Company, which initially focused on military planes but has long been known for its commercial aircraft.
Mr. Boeing left his namesake company in 1934 to pursue work in other industries, including lumber, real estate, horse breeding and livestock farming, though he continued consulting for Boeing for the rest of his life.
Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
THE LAST STONE By Mark Bowden
On March 25, 1975, two young girls went missing from a shopping mall in Wheaton, Md., a suburb north of Washington. Sheila and Kate Lyon were sisters, just 12 and 10 years old, from a solid, middle-class family. Until that day, their lives seemed to lack the slightest hint of drama; they had no reason or plan to run away. Decades after the leads ran dry and the searches stopped, the disappearance of the Lyon sisters resonated. Here was every parent’s nightmare — or, as Mark Bowden remembers it, “a regional trauma.”
Bowden was 23 that year, starting his career on the police beat of The Baltimore News-American. Recalling his visits with the girls’ parents, he writes, “I could not witness their pain dispassionately.” Since then, Bowden has written more than a dozen books, including “Black Hawk Down,” and returned often to the subject of police work, including a provocative 2003 piece in The Atlantic about the problematic gray areas between coercion and torture. When, in 2013, detectives in Maryland started to question the first solid witness in the Lyon case in nearly 40 years, Bowden was ideally positioned to revisit the first major story of his career.
[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of April. See the full list. ]
A native of one of the destitute hollows of Appalachia, Lloyd Welch was 18 when the Lyon sisters vanished. He had been at the mall that day, and a few days later he told police he’d seen another man talking with the girls there. When, years later, cold-case detectives learned about the crimes Welch had committed in the intervening decades — including child molestation — they could not help wondering if he should be less a witness than a suspect. But when they visit Welch in prison, where he is hoping for an early release, he gets the jump on them, saying he knows exactly why they’re there (we learn later how he found out). And for much of his questioning, Welch seems almost drunk with power — “like a fairy-tale goblin guarding a treasure, speaking in riddles.” The challenge facing the detectives: “How do you get a compulsive liar, one with every reason to lie, to tell the truth?”
In “The Last Stone,” Bowden focuses on 21 months of questioning by a revolving cast of detectives, telling a stirring, suspenseful, thoughtful story that, miraculously, neither oversimplifies the details nor gets lost in the thicket of a four-decade case file. This is a cat-and-mouse tale, told beautifully. But like all great true crime, “The Last Stone” finds its power not by leaning into cliché but by resisting it — pushing for something more realistic, more evocative of a deeper truth. In this case, Bowden shows how even the most exquisitely pulled-off interrogations are a messy business, in which exhaustive strategizing is followed by game-time gut decisions and endless second-guessing and soul-searching.
An interrogator’s most important job — like a journalist’s — is to keep the subject talking. “The problem was to convince him that it was in his best interests to reveal what he knew,” Bowden writes, “even though it manifestly was not.” Dave Davis, the detective who spends the most time in the room with Welch, has the softest touch. “Criminals saw the man, not the badge,” Bowden writes; Davis uses empathy as a tactic, even if being empathetic around Welch “meant donning moral blinders.” As another detective with a nurturing style, Katie Leggett, puts it: “We had to endure the ‘friendship’ and go through the crap to get as many of the answers as we could.” Readers will probably recognize a tried-and-true strategy here: good cop/bad cop. When Leggett loses her temper with Welch, still another detective steps in to smooth things over, saying, “I actually think you are still the nice person we thought you were.”
[ Read our review of Bowden’s “Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War.” ]
Their interrogation target, is, in Bowden’s telling, an audacious foil, not to mention a colossal narcissist — “natively bright but deeply ignorant and cocky beyond all reason.” Welch seems driven to keep tabs on what the police know. So rather than shut them down entirely, he plays a riskier game, admitting just enough to keep them coming back, but not so much that he could be charged with another crime. His capacity to lie is bottomless, and the lies themselves are rather ingeniously “built around the known facts.” Each time new information contradicts him, Welch alters his story just enough to make sense; each new set of facts resets the cones on the slalom course, and off he glides again, as if on skis. “The ease with which Lloyd made these shifts never ceased to amaze,” Bowden writes. “He acted as if he had never told the story differently.”
Bowden is very good at showing how both sides in this protracted interrogation are lying. Deceit and trickery are tools of the trade for the police, at least in American interrogations. But they are perilous tools. “Once you get into the really interesting stuff,” Bowden writes, “you descend, by necessity, a moral ladder onto slippery ground.” At worst, forcing a narrative onto a suspect can lead to false confessions, as, for example, the wrongly convicted men in the Central Park Five case can attest. And so for a time, we are in a weird area with this book, where the only evidence is what people say, decades later, and the persuasiveness of that evidence depends entirely on whether what those people say can be believed. The more Welch talks, the more the detectives wonder if everything he is saying is simply catering to their own biases. Hours of tall tales, “then five minutes of half-truth,” Bowden writes. “Were the detectives zeroing in on the truth, or was Lloyd just desperately inventing?”
This self-doubt — this perpetual self-scrutiny — is what separates these detectives from, say, the one in Netflix’s “Making a Murderer” who, on video, spoon-feeds a confession to poor Brendan Dassey, a teenage boy so intimidated that he gurgles back what was said to him. (Dassey’s conviction was eventually tossed out, only to be reinstated on appeal to the federal Seventh Circuit.) The best interrogators, Bowden explains, “are connoisseurs of untruth.” Again, Bowden the reporter feels a kinship with them: They, too, must assemble a cogent narrative from a morass of chaos. “What we call history,” Bowden writes, is at best “artful, informed, honest speculation.” The detectives are, in the end, writing a story. Hopefully a true one.
The more they investigate Welch’s claims, the woollier his story gets. The only thing more odious than Welch himself might be his family, the venal, abusive, incestuous clan that forms the book’s gothic subplot. In the end, even a skilled liar like Welch can’t keep all his stories straight. “Making him rattled and weary,” Bowden writes, “became a strategy.” A slip of the tongue helps the cops pry out a new admission, and the Lyon family has the beginnings of an answer. Right through to the end, Welch’s only concern is himself. “I can’t believe that you’re doing this to me,” he says — with no mention of the two girls whose lives were destroyed long ago.
“Lloyd’s clumsy mendacity kept the thing alive,” Bowden writes. That and the dedication of his inquisitors, who were ready to make Welch think the best of them — to trust them, to like them. “You’re a cop but you’re a good guy,” Welch tells Davis, during one of their last encounters. “You have a good heart.” For an interrogator, there may be no higher compliment.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
About 300 more people came forward to report they were raped last year in New York City than the previous year, a sharp increase that officials theorize was fueled in part by the #MeToo movement.
While other violent crimes like murder and assault decreased or remained relatively flat, the police said reported rapes increased 22.4 percent to 1,795 in 2018, up from 1,467 from 2017. A broader category of sex crimes that includes groping and forcible touching also jumped 8.4 percent to 3,873 in 2018, from 3,573 in 2017, according to police statistics.
Reported rapes in New York City have risen for 16 consecutive months since last fall, when allegations of sexual misconduct against the movie producer Harvey Weinstein ignited a global reckoning about sexual harassment and assault, especially in the workplace. The city’s numbers reflect many, but not all of the sexual assaults reported to the police last year because of differences in how such crimes are classified under state and federal law.
Though it is almost impossible to determine with certainty why more people are coming forward, police officials and advocates for victims said the publicity and outrage generated by the #MeToo movement has encouraged more victims to contact the police.
Maureen Curtis, the director of criminal justice programs for Safe Horizon, a nonprofit that places crime victim advocates at the city’s police precincts and handles local calls from the national rape crisis hotline, said the environment has made victims feel more comfortable discussing assaults.
“They’re feeling more believed,” Ms. Curtis said. “There’s more compassion and there’s less blaming around the person who has been victimized.”
The increase in reported rapes in New York appears to continue a broader national trend. In its annual crime victimization survey released last month, the Justice Department reported that 40 percent of the people who said they were sexually assaulted in 2017 also said they reported the attacks to the police, up from 23 percent in 2016.
As Christine Blasey-Ford testified last year about sexual assault allegations against Justice Brett Kavanaugh of the Supreme Court, rape crisis centers across the country were flooded with calls from people reporting similar experiences.
“Our numbers peaked and they kind of stayed there,” Monique Howard, executive director of Women Organized Against Rape, a Philadelphia-based nonprofit that handles rape crisis calls. The increase, she said, has also led to an uptick in police reports.
Mayor Bill de Blasio said the numbers appear to reflect a cultural shift in attitudes about sex crimes. “Historic underreporting,” he said, “is finally being addressed.”
“I think the #MeToo movement is a part of it, and a number of other things,” he said last week at a news conference. “Messages are being sent by government. Messages are being sent by media, by advocates, helping victims — survivors — to know that they should come forward, that it’s important, that they’ll be protected, they’ll be supported.”
Police statistics indicate the increase in reported rapes was driven largely by people coming forward about attacks involving domestic partners and acquaintances rather than strangers. Reports of attacks by a person known to a victim accounted for all but 10 of the 328 additional complaints in 2018, the police said.
In addition, more than one in five rapes reported in 2018 occurred in prior years, a rate significantly higher than police officials have said was typical before #MeToo.
James P. O’Neill, the police commissioner, said a public service campaign the department began in April was “a big part” of why more victims were coming forward.
Deputy Chief Lori Pollock, who is in charge of crime control strategies, said more victims walk into police stations to report sexual assaults.
“It means we’re building trust,” she said. “The message is we want the reports. We want to hear from you. We want to investigate these crimes.”
Mary Haviland, executive director of the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault, said no one can determine from the number of reported rapes how often the crime actually happens in New York. A report released last year said the police estimated that as few as 5 percent of the city’s sexual assaults get reported.
Last March, the city Department of Investigation issued a blistering report criticizing top police officials for failing to provide enough staff members, resources and training to the Special Victims Division, which investigates sex crimes.
The report said the shortfalls left detectives unable to properly investigate all of their cases, and resulted in a system that prioritized sexual assaults committed by strangers over those committed by someone a victim knew.
The Police Department initially rejected the report’s findings, but later added more detectives to the Special Victims Division and replaced its top commander.
Several victim advocates have said the changes so far, which include the dissolution of the units charged with investigating drug-facilitated rapes and cold cases that lack D.N.A. evidence, fall woefully short of addressing the unit’s needs.
Ms. Haviland said it was disappointing the mayor and commissioner did not present a plan for how they intend to handle the increased number of rape cases.
“I just think if there was another crime category that was up 22 percent that you would prepare remarks to deal with it,” she said. “Are they going to increase staff in S.V.D.? Are they going to assign more detectives? What are they going to do to address the increase in caseload?”
SAN ANTONIO — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he would have to mobilize more of the military at the U.S. border with Mexico after listening to stories about migrants crossing the border from people attending a Republican fundraiser.
"I'm going to have to call up more military," Trump said.
The president said some of the people crossing the border were ending up dead from the journey on Americans' ranches. He interrupted his discussion with Republican donors to bring in reporters to listen to the stories about the border. 
"Many, many dead people," Trump said, referring to migrants who he said had perished after making the journey. "Also they come in and raid their houses, and it's very dangerous," Trump said, referring to locals affected by the influx of migrants.
There are currently about 5,000 active-duty and National Guard troops near the border, though that number fluctuates.
"We support our federal partners," Pentagon spokesman Army Lieutenant Colonel Jamie Davis said when asked about Trump's comments.
Trump in February had deployed an additional 3,750 U.S. troops to the country's southwestern border to support Customs and Border Protection agents.
Later that month, Democratic governors of states including Wisconsin, New Mexico and California withdrew their National Guard troops, saying there was not enough evidence of a security crisis to justify keeping them there.
Trump, who drew sharp criticism for saying during the 2016 presidential campaign that Mexico was sending rapists and drug runners to the United States, said on Wednesday that those comments were tame compared to the stories he had heard since.
"People are dying. Great people are dying. Bad people are coming up. You have both," he said. "From the time I made my first speech at Trump Tower, when I mentioned the word 'rape' and everybody went crazy - because that turned out to be nothing compared to what happens on those journeys up. Nothing. My speech was so tame, as it turned out."
Trump has made immigration a signature issue of his presidency and of his re-election campaign. He declared a national emergency over the issue earlier this year in an effort to redirect funding from Congress to build a wall along the U.S. southern border. 
Earlier this week he announced that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen was stepping down. White House officials said he wanted new leadership at the department to focus more closely on what he has called a border crisis.
Trump is in Texas for fundraising stops that Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel said would raise some $6 million.
Trump and the other participants at the San Antonio fundraiser emphasized the toll that the trips across the border were taking.
"Let me tell you, we can document well over a thousand dead bodies over the last five to six to seven years. That’s the ones that we find," said Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick.
Trump said his proposed wall would help.
"If you had a wall, they wouldn't be able to get through ... You know, ... you can take them to some place where they can be taken care of. And they won't come; you won't have so many - because if they know they can't get through, they're not going to come," he said.
 (Reporting by Jeff Mason; additional reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by James Dalgleish)
PARIS — The Vatican’s envoy to France is under investigation after being accused of sexually molesting an employee of Paris City Hall, French officials said on Friday.
The case adds to a long list of sexual assault accusations around the globe — from minors, other priests and nuns, among others — that have confronted the Roman Catholic Church and that threaten Pope Francis’ pontificate.
The Paris prosecutor’s office opened the preliminary investigation on Jan. 24, according to a spokesman for the French judiciary, after it was informed by Paris City Hall of the accusations. The spokesman, who insisted on anonymity in line with department policy, did not provide further details.
A City Hall official said on Friday that the employee had accused the envoy, Archbishop Luigi Ventura, 74, of “repeatedly” sexually molesting him on the sidelines of one of Mayor Anne Hidalgo’s traditional New Year’s ceremonies, on Jan. 17.
The official, who said he was not authorized to speak publicly about an investigation while it was in process, said that the employee, whose name has not been made public, was in his 30s and worked for the city’s international relations department. On the day he said the sexual assault took place, he was charged with greeting and guiding the archbishop before the ceremony.
Archbishop Ventura, the apostolic nuncio to France, has been the Vatican’s diplomatic representative in Paris since 2009, and he has regularly attended the ceremony, during which the mayor meets with religious leaders and the diplomatic corps. But the City Hall official said this was the first time a city employee had complained about the archbishop’s behavior.
The employee accused Archbishop Ventura of touching his buttocks on three occasions, the official said, first when the Vatican envoy arrived at City Hall, greeting him and complimenting him on his physical appearance. The employee said he thought the gesture might have been involuntary, according to the official.
But the archbishop touched the man’s buttocks a second time several minutes later, this time more forcefully, according to the official, who said “there was no more doubt for the employee that this act was voluntary.”
The employee sought to distance himself from the archbishop, going to another room, but the archbishop followed him and touched his buttocks a third time, the official said. In that instance, four other City Hall employees were witnesses.
The employee left and told his manager, and on Jan. 23 the city authorities formally informed the Paris prosecutor’s office of the episode in a written letter, the official said, as well as the Foreign Ministry. 
A Vatican spokesman, Alessandro Gisotti, said in a statement that, having learned of the case through news reports, “the Holy See awaits the outcome of the investigation.”
The investigation comes days before Pope Francis is to meet with the presidents of the world’s bishops’ conferences and other religious leaders at the Vatican for an unprecedented conference focusing on the protection of minors in the church.
Vatican officials have described the four-day event as an educational meeting for pastors to assist the global church to better deal with clerical sexual abuse, especially in areas where the issue has still not received the attention it warrants.
Advocates for victims and church critics say that the Vatican has been largely ineffectual in addressing the issue, and the persistence of scandals throughout the world — cases emerged last year in Chile, Germany, the United States and other countries — continue to threaten the credibility of the church.
Last year, another Vatican diplomat, Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, the former apostolic nuncio to the United States, accused Francis of personally covering up cases of sexual abuse and called for his resignation.
In a long letter leaked to the news media, Archbishop Viganò also called out other clerics he accused of belonging to “homosexual networks” inside the church.
NEW YORK — Woody Allen breached his four-movie deal with the online giant by making statements about the #MeToo movement that damaged prospects for promoting his films, an Amazon lawyer said Friday.
Attorney Robert Klieger told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote that the company protected itself after Allen made "public comments that at a minimum were insensitive to the #MeToo movement."
The hearing was related to a lawsuit Allen filed in February seeking at least $68 million in damages. The lawsuit said Amazon ended his 2017 contract in June without ever releasing a completed film, "A Rainy Day in New York."
Allen was not in court. John Quinn, his lawyer, told the judge that Seattle-based Amazon initially claimed it was ending the deal because of allegations made against Allen, not because of his recent statements.
"The baseless allegations against Mr. Allen are decades old," Quinn said. He added that the claims were well known when Amazon signed its deal with Allen in August 2017.
Allen's adopted daughter, Dylan Farrow, said in 1992 that Allen molested her in an attic when she was 7. Allen has repeatedly denied it.
In 2014, Farrow wrote about the allegations and then appeared in an interview early last year for the first time.
Quinn said Amazon has since changed its explanation for terminating the contract to blaming Allen for making statements saying that the #MeToo movement should not become a witch hunt.
The lawyer said the company had also cited claims that people in the industry won't work with Allen.
Regardless, Quinn said, Allen planned to produce a new movie this summer.
In court papers, Amazon noted that Allen's son, Ronan Farrow, published an article in The New Yorker just weeks after the company signed its contract with Allen. The article detailed reports of sexual misconduct against movie producer Harvey Weinstein. Weinstein has denied non-consensual sexual conduct occurred.
"The article became the catalyst for a broad reckoning over the persistence of sexual harassment in entertainment and other industries," Amazon's lawyers wrote.
They said Allen then made a series of public comments "suggesting that he failed to grasp the gravity of the issues or the implications for his own career."
They cited several quotes by Allen in a magazine article including: "You don't want it to lead to a witch-hunt atmosphere, a Salem atmosphere, where every guy in an office who winks at a woman is suddenly having to call a lawyer to defend himself."
They also noted that after Dylan Farrow recounted her memories of sexual abuse in January 2018, Allen publicly dismissed the statements in a newspaper article as "cynically using" #MeToo for attention.
Klieger told the judge Allen's public comments resulted in controversy "in Hollywood and outside of Hollywood."
The effect of the comments mean the pictures can no longer be made or promoted, Klieger said.
After hearing both lawyers, the judge set a case schedule stretching into next year.
Allen and possibly Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, among others, were likely to provide depositions unless the case is resolved through private mediation in coming weeks.
LONDON — WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has exchanged a small room at the Ecuadorian Embassy in central London for a cell at Belmarsh Prison, a grim institution in the southeast part of the city where he nevertheless has certain advantages he didn't have when he was holed up, hiding from the law.
WikiLeaks editor-in-chief Kristinn Hrafnsson said Friday that the ailing Assange should finally be able to receive medical care and will be able to meet with his lawyers more easily than he could in the embassy, where a feud with Ecuadorian authorities had led to a ban on most guests.
The 47-year-old Assange has extreme shoulder pain and tooth pain, Hrafnsson said.
For nearly seven years, Assange lived in the embassy without taking a step outside for fear of being arrested and sent to the U.S. to be prosecuted.
On Thursday, British authorities dragged the Australian native from the embassy, and U.S. authorities announced charges against him of conspiring to break into a Pentagon computer, setting up what is expected to be an epic legal and political battle over whether to extradite him to the U.S.
His arrest became possible after Ecuador revoked his political asylum, complaining that he was an obnoxious houseguest who didn't clean up after his cat and that WikiLeaks was plotting to blackmail the Latin American country's president.
At the prison, where he is being held while the extradition process plays out, "there are medical facilities there, access to dental care I would assume, and a garden to go out into," Hrafnsson said.
"But comparing one prison to another and giving a star rating is not really what's on my mind," he said. "What's on my mind is there's an innocent man in prison for doing his job as a journalist, and that's an outrage."
He said Assange is in relatively good mental condition considering the stress of recent days.
The political debate over whether to extradite Assange is already taking shape, with Britain's opposition Labour Party urging the government not to hand him over to the Americans. Party leader Jeremy Corbyn tweeted that the U.S. is prosecuting Assange because he exposed "evidence of atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan."
Diane Abbott, Labour's spokeswoman for domestic affairs, told Parliament: "It is this whistle-blowing into illegal wars, mass murder, murder of civilians and corruption on a grand scale that has put Julian Assange in the cross hairs of the U.S. administration."
The politicization of the case reflects the clashing views of Assange as either a heroic whistleblower standing up to the mighty United States or a willing stooge who helped the Russians boost Donald Trump's presidential campaign by publishing hacked emails that embarrassed his rival, Hillary Clinton.
Assange's bid to fend off extradition could take years and involve several layers of appeal. He could also face a second extradition request if Sweden decides to pursue a rape case against him that was suspended in 2017, when he was in the embassy, beyond the reach of the law.
If found guilty of the U.S. charges, Assange could get five years in prison. His next court appearance is set for May 2 via a prison video link.
Extradition lawyer Ben Keith said the court will not assess the evidence against Assange to determine his guilt or innocence but will scrutinize whether the offense he is accused of in the U.S. would be a crime in Britain.
"The most likely outcome is that he will be extracted to the United States," he said.
If Assange loses in extradition court, he could appeal several times and ultimately try to have his case heard at the European Court of Human Rights — unless Britain has left the European Union by that time.
A version of this article was published in print editions on Dec. 14, 2018, but not online, to comply with a suppression order imposed by a judge in Australia, where The Times has a bureau. On Tuesday, Feb. 26, in Australia, the suppression order was rescinded after a second trial was canceled. All the dates below refer to the original December publication date.
MELBOURNE, Australia — An Australian cardinal who was once an adviser to Pope Francis has been convicted of molesting choir boys more than 20 years ago, making him the highest-ranking Roman Catholic leader ever found guilty of sexual abuse.
The unanimous jury verdict against the cardinal, George Pell, 77, was delivered Tuesday in the County Court of Victoria, where a suppression order has prevented media outlets from sharing any information about the case that could be accessed in Australia.
Cardinal Pell’s case was especially significant because he occupied the highest levels of the church hierarchy. He had been tapped by Francis to reform the Vatican’s finances after leading the church’s response to sexual abuse allegations against priests in Australia.
While Catholic bishops have been convicted before in cover-ups of child sexual abuse, this is the first time that a bishop has been convicted of perpetrating such abuse, according to Ann Barrett Doyle, co-director of Bishopaccountability.org, a research and advocacy group. More than 60 bishops have been accused of sexually abusing minors, she said.
Cardinal Pell, who returned voluntarily from the Vatican in July of 2017, was charged with five offenses said to have occurred in December of 1996 during his time as the newly appointed Archbishop of Melbourne.
Four of the charges related to an incident in which Cardinal Pell was accused of sexually assaulting two 13-year-old altar boys and forcing his penis into the mouth of one of them after Sunday Mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, in the priest’s sacristy; the fifth charge related to a separate incident in which Cardinal Pell was accused of grabbing one of the boy’s genitals.
Mitchell Garabedian, a lawyer in Boston who has represented hundreds of sexual abuse victims, said Cardinal Pell’s case had opened the floodgates for abuse charges of other cardinals and officials at the highest levels of the Church.
“There are no boundaries here,” Mr. Garabedian said. “Take away the robes and the religion and they are criminals.”
The guilty verdict for Cardinal Pell ends a career of ascent and enormous power for a brash leader in the church whose management skills and confidence propelled him into the Vatican elite even as accusations of molestation trailed behind him.
On Wednesday, Vatican officials announced that Cardinal Pell had been expelled from a powerful council of advisers picked by Pope Francis to guide him on matters critical to the Catholic Church’s future.
The jury trial in Melbourne lasted just short of five weeks, ending with three days of jury deliberation.
It was a retrial of the case after an earlier trial ended with a hung jury.
Both proceedings were subject to the suppression order that barred publication in Australia of details on the charges, the verdict and any other element of the case, “to prevent a real and substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice,” according to the order.
The New York Times did not initially publish this article online, and it blocked delivery to Australia of any version in print or through syndication, to comply with the order.
Another trial on charges involving abuse allegations against Cardinal Pell from the 1970s is expected to start in March, and the gag order is intended in part to prevent a future jury from developing biases before deliberations in that case. The order is scheduled to be lifted after a verdict in that trial.
But since the verdict, the news has been published by several international news outlets. News organizations in Australia have been testing the boundaries of what is permissible while pressuring the court to lift the order.
One tabloid, The Telegraph, published a front-page article on Thursday declaring “It’s the Nation’s Biggest Story” that it was not allowed to publish. “A high-profile Australian with a worldwide reputation has been convicted of an awful crime, The Telegraph wrote, adding, “but The Daily Telegraph and other Australian media are prohibited from telling you about it.”
Several other outlets published editorials on their front pages denouncing the news blackout in cryptic language that avoided direct references to Cardinal Pell or the verdict, prompting Chief Judge Peter Kidd to hold an impromptu hearing on Thursday, in which he called for prosecutors to initiate legal proceedings against journalists for contempt of court.
“A number of very important people in the media are facing, if found guilty, the prospect of imprisonment, and indeed substantial imprisonment,” Judge Kidd said, according to a transcript released by the court.
The maximum sentence for contempt, he said, is five years in prison.
Mr. Garabedian said the church benefits from court secrecy. “The suppression order plays into the secrecy, which the Catholic Church thrives on when it comes to the issue of clergy sexual abuse,” he said.
Other elements of the case have also been kept secret, in part because of privacy laws. Despite repeated requests to the court, news media outlets were refused access to the testimony from the former altar boy who is the case’s main complainant, live or in transcript.
He cannot be identified publicly under a provision in Australian law designed to protect victims of childhood sexual abuse.
During the trial, however, the prosecution’s main lawyer, Mark Gibson, read out parts of the complainant’s testimony. In that statement he described how Cardinal Pell shoved him to the floor and pushed his erect penis into his mouth.
The statement added that he did not speak out about the event for years for fear of losing his scholarship to St. Kevin’s College, a prestigious private Catholic school in Melbourne.
“I was young and I didn’t really know what had happened to me,” the statement said. “I didn’t know if it was normal.”
A second former altar boy was said by the first altar boy to have been molested by Pell. He died in 2014 in what the court described as “accidental” circumstances, widely known to have been a heroin overdose. He also cannot be identified.
Prosecutors methodically presented evidence from both complainants and built a case showing that Cardinal Pell — a physically imposing former athlete who carried nicknames like “Big George” and “the ambitious Australian bulldog” — had the opportunity and ability to commit grave acts of abuse in a relatively private section of the cathedral that he knew intimately.
His defense lawyers, led by one of Australia’s most prominent and well-paid barristers, Robert Richter, argued a man of such stature would never have been so reckless having risen that same year to become the archbishop of the Melbourne archdiocese.
Indeed, a few months before the episodes at the cathedral, which Cardinal Pell has denied, he unveiled what became known as the “Melbourne Response” to the sexual abuse problem that has plagued the church for generations.
His plan included a pamphlet with an apology and pledged modest payouts to victims of pedophile priests, capped at 50,000 Australian dollars ($36,000).
Cardinal Pell, who was then considered an efficient leader, forced more than a dozen priests who were accused of abuse to step down.
But victims of abuse also accused him of failing to adequately support their claims — the payouts were far smaller than those in other countries — and of overlooking abuse earlier in his career, when he was a priest in Ballarat, his hometown.
Mr. Richter repeatedly argued in court that none of this was relevant; it was not “a trial of the Catholic Church,” he said, according to people in court.
“The trial here is of the most senior Catholic cleric charged with actually — let’s call a spade a spade — orally raping a child of 13, and doing some other disgusting things,” Mr. Richter told the jury. He added that only “a madman,” would have done such things.
In the mistrial, which ended in September, several jurors could be seen weeping when they told the judge they could not reach a conclusion.
But on Tuesday, the jury seemed to harbor few doubts. As the foreman announced the verdict, the jury’s nine men and three women — including a mathematician, postal worker and secondary school teacher — sat straight-faced, revealing little emotion, with only a few glancing in the direction of Cardinal Pell, who gazed at the floor, his thinning gray hair swept sideways over his balding head.
Judge Kidd granted Cardinal Pell’s bail so that he could undergo a double knee reconstruction on Friday — after which, the judge said, he would issue a sentence.
Many of those who were in the court watching the proceedings said they were surprised by the outcome.
“Everyone in the room was shocked; stunned,” said Rosemary O’Grady, a retired lawyer, who took detailed notes at the trials on behalf of several victims groups. “Even people who had been anticipating one possible conviction did not anticipate five convictions.”
Julie Cameron, another supporter of the victims who diligently sat through both trials said she was overcome with emotion.
“I ended up in tears,” she said, “because it’s a miracle; it’s a miracle that that man — that boy — is now believed.”
(Reuters) - A University of Minnesota student who said she was raped last August by Richard Liu, the chief executive officer of China's e-commerce retailer JD.com Inc, filed a civil lawsuit against him in a Minneapolis court on Tuesday, nearly four months after prosecutors declined to press criminal charges.
Liu, through his lawyers, maintained his innocence throughout the law enforcement investigation, which ended in December.
The lawsuit filed in Hennepin County court seeks undisclosed damages and names Richard Liu and JD.com as defendants. It also identifies the student for the first time as Liu Jingyao, a Chinese woman who is not related to the JD.com executive.
"Defendant Liu was physically larger in size and significantly stronger than the plaintiff and used his superior size and strength to subdue and rape her," the court document said.
Richard Liu's attorney, Jill Brisbois, said in a written statement on Tuesday that she had not yet reviewed the complaint, but "based on the Hennepin County attorney’s declination to charge a case against our client and our belief in his innocence, we feel strongly that this suit is without merit and will vigorously defend against it."
Peter Walsh, an attorney for JD.com at Hogan Lovells, said in a written statement while they were not prepared to comment at this time, they will vigorously defend against "these meritless claims against the company."
The student first accused Richard Liu of rape in August when he was visiting the University of Minnesota to attend a doctor of business administration program directed at executives from China.
Liu, 46, who started JD.com as a humble electronics stall and expanded it into an e-commerce company with 2018 net revenues of $67 billion, was arrested on Aug. 31, but released without charge about 17 hours later. 
He soon returned to China and continued his executive role, as prosecutors in Minnesota investigated the rape allegation to determine if criminal charges were warranted.
In December, Hennepin County Attorney Michael Freeman announced he was not charging Richard Liu as there were "profound evidentiary problems which would have made it highly unlikely that any criminal charge could be proven beyond a reasonable doubt."
Richard Liu said subsequently on Chinese social media that while he had broken no law, he felt "utter self-admonishment and regret" for the "enormous pain" his "actions on that day" caused his family, especially his wife, internet celebrity Zhang Zetian.
Also known as Liu Qiangdong, he would have faced up to 30 years in prison under Minnesota law if convicted of first-degree criminal sexual misconduct.
Reuters previously reported details of what happened while Richard Liu was in Minneapolis for a week-long residency program at the University of Minnesota's Carlson School of Management, including a description of the alleged attack and the events around it given by the then-anonymous student.
"We are proud of the incredible courage our client has shown revealing her name for all the world to see, so that justice may be done," Florin Roebig, P.A., one of the law firms representing Liu Jingyao, said in a statement on Tuesday.
Florin Roebig declined to comment on the amount they were seeking in damages, but the court filing showed it was more than the $50,000 threshold required.
Spokesmen for the University of Minnesota and the Hennepin County Attorney declined to comment on the lawsuit.
JD.COM 'VICARIOUSLY LIABLE'
The lawsuit accused Richard Liu and JD.com of a total of six counts of false imprisonment, civil assault and battery, as well as sexual assault or battery.
JD.com is "vicariously liable" for Richard Liu's behavior because his alleged actions happened while he was "seemingly" at work-related activities, the court document said. The assault and battery also began in the presence of two other JD.com employees, Vivian Yang Han and Alice Zhang Yujia, the court filing said. 
Yang, when reached on her cellphone for comment, hung up. Zhang did not respond to a request for comment.
"Those employees were not only present but helped facilitate" Richard Liu's alleged assault of the student, according to the lawsuit.
"The offensive contact caused the plaintiff physical and emotional injuries," the court filing said. "It also caused her to withdraw from all classes during the fall 2018 semester at the University of Minnesota and to seek professional counseling, care and treatment."
The lawsuit said that when police visited the student's apartment after being alerted to the rape allegation, Richard Liu tried to intimidate her from cooperating with law enforcement, according to an officer's body camera footage. The lawsuit said Liu was "staring down" at her while being removed from her apartment, angrily saying "'What the hell?'"
 (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Lawrence Delevingne in New York; editing by Grant McCool and G Crosse)
TORONTO — Miriam Toews woke up the other night, her heart racing. She wasn’t having another dream about her sister’s violent death, or her father’s, or the rapes suffered by the women at the center of her latest book, “Women Talking,” to be released April 2 in the United States. This night, her Mennonite conscience had found something far more mundane to worry over: Toews had promised the department store saleswoman who so kindly helped her pick out the right pants for her 83-year-old mother, Elvira, that she would send a complimentary email to her boss, and she’d forgotten.
So, the celebrated writer — who in Canada is more famous than many hockey players — crept out of bed, made her way down to the living room and turned on her computer.
“I wondered about myself at that point,” said Toews (pronounced taves), sitting in the small, brick Victorian house she shares with Elvira and her common-law spouse, Erik Rutherford, in a dense, downtown Toronto neighborhood. It’s a world away from the small Mennonite town of her childhood, Steinbach, Manitoba.
“Now I’m here and what do I do? Think about Steinbach all the time,” said Toews, 54. “I must be nearing death.”
“Women Talking” is her eighth book and the one that most firmly directs its gaze at the moral failings of — and her hopes for — the small Protestant sect in which she was raised.
It is based on the real-life horror story of women in an ultraconservative Mennonite colony in Bolivia, who woke up to headaches, bloodied sheets, and bruised bodies. Many believed they’d been attacked by demons. After more than three years, two men were caught in 2009, and seven more confessed to spraying a bovine anesthetic into their neighbors’ homes at night, and then raping the unconscious women and girls.
Toews first heard about it through the “Mennonite grapevine,” and the story wouldn’t release its claws. The colony was named after her home province of Manitoba. It was much more traditional than Steinbach, eschewing electricity, motorized vehicles and all entertainment. But the foundation was the same. She imagined the Bolivian women as her kin, even giving them her family names, and set them in a hayloft to debate three options — do nothing, fight or leave. In reality, the women stayed. In Toews’s fictionalized version, that was not an option.
The book is a feminist manifesto that delicately unwraps the horror, but also bubbles with the love and wry humor that has endeared Toews to readers.
“I wanted them to explore the questions I’ve had, more or less, my entire life,” said Toews, who although she’s recently become a grandmother, still looks like a teenager. On a recent day, she hadn’t passed a brush through her straw-colored hair, instead tying it up in a hasty knot. She was wearing her favorite Neil Young shirt which she admits she’d also worn the day before.
Steinbach is set in the flat Canadian prairies, about 40 miles southeast of Winnipeg. Toews grew up in an unusual Mennonite family, with just two children — both girls — and parents who encouraged critical thought and rebellion. But still, her dominating memories were the hard church pews, where she sat up to three times a week, and “the emphasis on shame and discipline and punishment and guilt and guilt that permeated the town.”
“If you don’t end up filled with self-loathing and/or guilt and/or inexplicable rage, living in that community, then you are not paying attention,” Toews said.
She left as soon as she graduated from high school for Montreal, a French-speaking city two days away by train, and built a life that surely would get her shunned by her Mennonite brethren, had she not already left the church. She shaved her head and followed punk bands. By 22, she was a single mother of a son, living on welfare and finishing a film degree at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg.
Then, she fell in love with Neal Rempel, a street performer who dressed as a radioactive Elvis and juggled machetes from atop of stilts.
Together, they had a daughter and spent their summers traveling the North American festival circuit in a Volkswagen van. They were married by an overweight Elvis impersonator in Las Vegas after winning $300 at the blackjack tables.
“Freedom is her obsession. It’s her guiding principle,” said Mr. Rutherford, a writer who got together with Toews a few years after she and Mr. Rempel divorced. “That and loyalty.”
After trying her hand at radio documentaries — she later got a degree in journalism — Toews decided she was better suited to writing novels.
It was her fourth book, "A Complicated Kindness,” that made her a household name in Canada, winning the country’s coveted Governor General’s Award. Set in a Mennonite town modeled on Steinbach, it tells the story of a rebellious teenage girl who bristles at all rules, but stays to keep her father company after her sister and mother fled.
But in Toews’s own life, it was her father who left the family. A devout teacher who struggled his whole life with manic depression, he killed himself by stepping in front of a train in 1998. Twelve years later, Toews’s beloved older sister, Marj, committed suicide the same way, which sent the writer into a dense fog of grief.
Her father’s death, Toews said, freed her to write openly about her childhood town, without the heartbreak of hurting him. After “A Complicated Kindness” was published — it has been translated into 13 languages — she said it would be her first and last word on the Mennonite religion.
But seven years later, in 2011, she released “Irma Voth,” a book inspired by Toews’s debut role in Carlos Reygadas’ film about an old-order Mennonite community in Mexico. Toews, a foreign film junkie, loved the insights the set offered into the movie business. But it also gave her the plot for another novel about teenage girls who flee their repressive Mennonite community.
The movie, “Stellet Licht” (Silent Light) won the jury prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 2007, and Toews received a best actress nomination for the Ariel Awards — Mexico’s equivalent to the Oscars — for her performance as a wife suffering from her husband’s adultery. 
The irony, of course, is that while the women and girls in her novels always flee, Toews could never fully leave Steinbach herself. Unlike the Bolivian women she depicts debating in a hayloft, she has chosen the second option — to fight with her childhood community.
“I felt I had an obligation to write down hope for change for Mennonite girls and women,” she said about “Women Talking,” which has been optioned by the actress Frances McDormand and Plan B Entertainment for a film. “I hope the Mennonite patriarchy and the misogyny inherent in the fundamentalism that conservative Mennonites preach, that one day will change.”
She added, “So we can change as a community. I feel I am part of that.”
Steinbach has changed since Toews left more than 35 years ago. It’s more than doubled in size, opened a liquor store, held a gay pride parade and built many more churches. Reception to her books in town has been mixed, locals say. There has not been an outpouring of criticism or anger from the community’s elders. “But there has definitely not been much celebration or pride that you’d think there would be,” said Andrew Unger, a high school English teacher in Steinbach who includes Toews novels in his courses. He pointed out that Toews has not given a reading in town for 15 years.
“There’s been no recognition at all,” said Unger, who writes a satirical Mennonite blog called The Daily Bonnet. “There’s a reluctance to accept her back in the fold.”
Others, like the Mennonite farmer Will Braun, say they love Toews’s writing and consider her brilliant. But she is not authority on local Mennonites or, for that matter, ones living far away in Bolivia.
“She’s just too far removed at this point,” said Braun, a senior writer at the bimonthly magazine Canadian Mennonite.
Although she remains far away, in a city where she is far more likely to bump into a Tamil Hindu than a Mennonite, Toews still longs for acceptance in her childhood fold. She identifies as a “secular Mennonite” and loves to sit at the old piano on the ground floor of her home and sing Mennonite hymns with her mother.
“I know how difficult it is to leave, even when you know you are not being nourished and you know your rights and freedoms are not being upheld,” she said. “You are leaving the people you love and the place you know.”
WASHINGTON — The woman who has accused Lt. Gov. Justin E. Fairfax of Virginia of sexual assault came forward on Wednesday, issuing a statement through a law firm that described a 2004 encounter at the Democratic National Convention in Boston that, she said, began with kissing but quickly turned into an episode of forced oral sex.
Mr. Fairfax, who has retained lawyers to assist him, has emphatically denied the allegation and argued that there is no corroborating evidence to support it.
Late Wednesday night, aides to a prominent Democratic Virginia congressman, Bobby Scott, said that the woman told him a year ago that she had made an allegation of sexual assault against Mr. Fairfax.
The woman identified herself on Wednesday as Dr. Vanessa C. Tyson, an associate professor of politics and expert in black history at Scripps College in California. She has also spent years advocating for victims of sexual assault and has spoken openly about being molested by her father when she was a child.
“What began as consensual kissing quickly turned into a sexual assault,” Dr. Tyson wrote, describing her encounter in a hotel room with the future lieutenant governor. “Mr. Fairfax put his hand behind my neck and forcefully pushed my head towards his crotch. Only then did I realize that he had unbuckled his belt, unzipped his pants, and taken out his penis.”
[Read the full text of Dr. Tyson’s statement here.]
Representative Scott issued a statement Wednesday afternoon saying that he has known Dr. Tyson as a friend for about a decade, and that she “deserves the opportunity to have her story heard.”
Late Wednesday night, aides to Mr. Scott confirmed that in late December 2017 or early January 2018, Dr. Tyson told him that she had made an allegation of sexual assault against Mr. Fairfax, in the course of giving Mr. Scott notice that she had given his name as a character reference to The Washington Post, which was investigating the allegation.
The congressman received “limited information” about the assault from The Post, but did not learn the full details until Dr. Tyson released her statement on Wednesday, the aides said. The account of Mr. Scott’s aides was first reported by ABC News.
Separately, a political scientist at Purdue University in Indiana, Nadia E. Brown, said Dr. Tyson told her of the assault about a year ago, when they were working with a group of political scientists dedicated to combating sexual harassment.
Mr. Fairfax has adamantly denied Dr. Tyson’s allegations; NBC News reported on Wednesday that he used an obscenity to describe Dr. Tyson as he sought to discredit her during a private State Senate caucus meeting Monday.
Asked if Mr. Fairfax had used the expletive to refer to the woman, Larry Roberts, the chief of staff to Mr. Fairfax, said the lieutenant governor had used a profanity to describe the situation and his level of anger, but had not referred to the woman with the expletive reported by NBC. Mr. Roberts said he attended the meeting.
On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Fairfax released a statement calling Dr. Tyson’s account “painful” to read, though he again denied that he had assaulted her.
“I take this situation very seriously and continue to believe Dr. Tyson should be treated with respect,” he said. “But, I cannot agree to a description of events that simply is not true.”
In her statement, Dr. Tyson offered a searing description of being sexually assaulted.
“He then forced his penis into my mouth,” the statement continued. “Utterly shocked and terrified, I tried to move my head away, but could not because his hand was holding down my neck and he was much stronger than me. As I cried and gagged, Mr. Fairfax forced me to perform oral sex on him.”
She said she did not tell anyone about the encounter with Mr. Fairfax for years because she felt “deep humiliation and shame,” and was reluctant to speak out amid the ongoing political controversy in Virginia because she feared being branded a liar. She identified herself as “a proud Democrat” and said she has no political motive for coming forward.
Dr. Tyson’s statement comes as Virginia is in turmoil over who will lead the state. Gov. Ralph Northam is facing calls for his resignation over a racist photo in his medical school yearbook; Mr. Fairfax is facing the accusations of sexual assault; and Attorney General Mark R. Herring, who would ascend to the governorship if both Mr. Northam and Mr. Fairfax were forced out, is under siege for acknowledging on Wednesday that he put on blackface while a student at the University of Virginia in 1980.
In her statement, Dr. Tyson recounted that she met Mr. Fairfax in July 2004 when they were both working at the convention. They soon realized they had a mutual friend, and on the third day of the convention Mr. Fairfax suggested she get “some fresh air” by accompanying him on a quick errand to retrieve documents from his room in a nearby hotel.
Their previous interactions had not been flirtatious, she said, and so she agreed. Once in the room, he kissed her, she wrote, and “though surprised by his advance, it was not unwelcome and I kissed him back.” He then pulled her toward the bed, where the assault occurred, she wrote.
By the time she met Mr. Fairfax, Dr. Tyson wrote, she had been regularly volunteering at a rape crisis center; on her LinkedIn profile it says she is a founding member of the Survivor Speakers Bureau at the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center. She said she felt the encounter with Mr. Fairfax “especially degrading” given her volunteer work.
“I did not speak about it for years, and I (like most survivors) suppressed those memories and emotions as a necessary means to continue my studies, and to pursue my goal of building a successful career as an academic,” she wrote.
In October of 2017, she wrote, she saw a photograph of Mr. Fairfax accompanying an article about his campaign to become lieutenant governor of Virginia. “The image hit me like a ton of bricks, triggering buried traumatic memories and the feelings of humiliation I’d felt so intensely back in 2004,” she wrote.
She told a few close friends of hers in Virginia what had happened, she said. In December of that year, she reached out to a friend at The Washington Post, which has said it declined to run the story in part because it was unable to corroborate her account. But when stories emerged about Governor Northam last Friday, she wrote, “I felt a jarring sense of both outrage and despair.”
She vented her frustration in a private Facebook post that did not identify Mr. Fairfax; she was then inundated with messages from reporters. When an online publication published her identity, Mr. Fairfax issued a statement calling her a liar, she wrote, which prompted her to consider whether to speak out.
“Mr. Fairfax’s suggestion that The Washington Post found me not to be credible was deceitful, offensive, and profoundly upsetting,” she wrote. She said she would not make any other statement and was speaking out only to clear her name, “and to provide what I believe is important information for Virginians to have as they make critical decisions that involve Mr. Fairfax.”
MILWAUKEE — Gregory Greiten was 17 years old when the priests organized the game. It was 1982 and he was on a retreat with his classmates from St. Lawrence, a Roman Catholic seminary for teenage boys training to become priests. Leaders asked each boy to rank which he would rather be: burned over 90 percent of his body, paraplegic or gay.
Each chose to be scorched or paralyzed. Not one uttered the word “gay.” They called the game the Game of Life.
The lesson stuck. Seven years later, he climbed up into his seminary dorm window and dangled one leg over the edge. “I really am gay,” Father Greiten, now a priest near Milwaukee, remembered telling himself for the first time. “It was like a death sentence.”
The closet of the Roman Catholic Church hinges on an impossible contradiction. For years, church leaders have driven gay congregants away in shame and insisted that “homosexual tendencies” are “disordered.” And yet, thousands of the church’s priests are gay.
The stories of gay priests are unspoken, veiled from the outside world, known only to one another, if they are known at all.
Fewer than about 10 priests in the United States have dared to come out publicly. But gay men probably make up at least 30 to 40 percent of the American Catholic clergy, according to dozens of estimates from gay priests themselves and researchers. Some priests say the number is closer to 75 percent. One priest in Wisconsin said he assumed every priest was gay unless he knows for a fact he is not. A priest in Florida put it this way: “A third are gay, a third are straight and a third don’t know what the hell they are.”
Two dozen gay priests and seminarians from 13 states shared intimate details of their lives in the Catholic closet with The New York Times over the past two months. They were interviewed in their churches before Mass, from art museums on the weekend, in their apartments decorated with rainbow neon lights and between classes at seminary. Some agreed to be photographed if their identities were concealed.
Almost all of them required strict confidentiality to speak without fear of retribution from their bishops or superiors. A few had been expressly forbidden to come out or even to speak about homosexuality. Most are in active ministry, and could lose more than their jobs if they are outed. The church almost always controls a priest’s housing, health insurance and retirement pension. He could lose all three if his bishop finds his sexuality disqualifying, even if he is faithful to his vows of celibacy.
The environment for gay priests has grown only more dangerous. The fall of Theodore E. McCarrick, the once-powerful cardinal who was defrocked last week for sexual abuse of boys and young men, has inflamed accusations that homosexuality is to blame for the church’s resurgent abuse crisis.
Studies repeatedly find there to be no connection between being gay and abusing children. And yet prominent bishops have singled out gay priests as the root of the problem, and right-wing media organizations attack what they have called the church’s “homosexual subculture,” “lavender mafia,” or “gay cabal.”
Even Pope Francis has grown more critical in recent months. He has called homosexuality “fashionable,” recommended that men with “this deep-seated tendency” not be accepted for ministry and admonished gay priests to be “perfectly responsible, trying to never create scandal.”
This week, Pope Francis will host a much-anticipated summit on sex abuse with bishops from around the world. The debate promises to be not only about holding bishops accountable but also about homosexuality itself.
“This is my life,” a parish priest in the Northeast said. “You feel like everyone is on a witch hunt now for things you have never done.”
Just a few years ago, this shift was almost unimaginable. When Pope Francis uttered his revolutionary question, “Who am I to judge?” in 2013, he tempted the closet door to swing open. A cautious few priests stepped through.
But if the closet door cracked, the sex abuse crisis now threatens to slam it shut. Widespread scapegoating has driven many priests deeper into the closet.
“The vast majority of gay priests are not safe,” said Father Bob Bussen, a priest in Park City, Utah, who was outed about 12 years ago after he held Mass for the L.G.B.T.Q. community.
“Life in the closet is worse than scapegoating,” he said. “It is not a closet. It is a cage.”
Even before a priest may know he is gay, he knows the closet. The code is taught early, often in seminary. Numquam duo, semper tres, the warning goes. Never two, always three. Move in trios, never as a couple. No going on walks alone together, no going to the movies in a pair. The higher-ups warned for years: Any male friendship is too dangerous, could slide into something sexual or could turn into what they called a “particular friendship.”
“You couldn’t have a particular friendship with a man, because you might end up being homosexual,” explained a priest, who once nicknamed his friends “the P.F.s.” “And you couldn’t have a friendship with a woman, because you might end up falling in love, and they were both against celibacy. With whom do you have a relationship that would be a healthy human relationship?”
Today, training for the priesthood in the United States usually starts in or after college. But until about 1980, the church often recruited boys to start in ninth grade — teenagers still in the throes of puberty. For many of today’s priests and bishops over 50, this environment limited healthy sexual development. Priests cannot marry, so sexuality from the start was about abstinence, and obedience.
The sexual revolution happening outside seminary walls might as well have happened on the moon, and national milestones in the fight for gay rights, like the Stonewall riots, on Mars.
One priest in a rural diocese said the rules reminded him of how his elementary school forced left-handed students to write with their right hand. “You can be taught to act straight in order to survive,” he said.
“I can still remember seeing a seminarian come out of another’s room at 5 a.m. and thinking, isn’t it nice, they talked all night,” the same priest said. “I was so naïve.”
Priests in America tend to come out to themselves at a much later age than the national average for gay men, 15. Many gay priests spoke of being pulled between denial and confusion, finally coming out to themselves in their 30s or 40s.
Father Greiten was 24 when he realized he was gay and considered jumping from his dorm window. He did not jump, but confided his despair in a classmate. His friend came out himself. It was a revelation: There were other people studying to be priests who were gay. It was just that no one talked about it.
He reached out to a former seminary professor who he thought might also be a gay man.
“There will be a time in your life when you will look back on this and you’re going to just love yourself for being gay,” Father Greiten remembered this man telling him. “I thought, ‘This man must be totally insane.’”
But he had discovered the strange irony of the Catholic closet — it isn’t secret at all.
“It’s kind of like an open closet,” Father Greiten said. “It’s the making of it public, and speaking about it, where it becomes an issue.”
One priest, whose parish has no idea he is gay, remembered a backyard cocktail party a few years ago where fellow priests were saying “vile” things about a gay bishop. He intervened, and came out to them. He lost three friends that night. “I broke the code by announcing to them that I was gay,” he said. “It was a conspiracy of silence.”
That is a reason many of the men are out to only a few close friends. The grapevine has taught them which priests in their diocese are gay, whom to trust and whom to fear.
All priests must wrestle with their vows of celibacy, and the few priests who are publicly out make clear they are chaste.
Still, many priests said they had had sex with other men to explore their sexual identity. Some have watched pornography to see what it is like for two men to have sex. They ultimately found more anguish than pleasure.
One priest had sex for the first time at 62, no strings attached, with a man he met online. The relationship was discovered and reported to his bishop, and he has not had sex since. Another priest, when asked if he had ever considered himself as having a partner, wondered what that even meant. He paused, before mentioning one very special friend. “I fell in love several times with men,” he said. “I knew from the beginning it wasn’t going to last.”
Though open, the closet means that many priests have held the most painful stories among themselves for decades: The seminarian who died by suicide, and the matches from a gay bar found afterward in his room. The priest friends who died of AIDS. The feeling of coming home to an empty rectory every night.
So they find ways to encourage one another. They share books like Father James Martin’s groundbreaking “Building a Bridge,” on the relationship between the Catholic and L.G.B.T. communities. Some have signed petitions against church-sponsored conversion therapy programs, or have met on private retreats, after figuring out how to conceal them on their church calendars. Occasionally, a priest may even take off his collar and offer to unofficially bless a gay couple’s marriage.
Some may call this rebellion. But “it is not a cabal,” one priest said. “It is a support group.”
Just over a year ago, after meeting with a group of gay priests, Father Greiten decided it was time to end his silence. At Sunday Mass, during Advent, he told his suburban parish he was gay, and celibate. They leapt to their feet in applause.
His story went viral. A 90-year-old priest called him to say he had lived his entire life in the closet and longed for the future to be different. A woman wrote from Mississippi, asking him to move south to be her priest.
To some church leaders, that outpouring of support may have been even more threatening than his sexuality. Father Greiten had committed the cardinal sin: He opened the door to debate. His archbishop, Jerome E. Listecki of Milwaukee, issued a statement saying that he wished Father Greiten had not gone public. Letters poured in calling him “satanic,” “gay filth” and a “monster” who sodomized children.
The idea that gay priests are responsible for child sexual abuse remains a persistent belief, especially in many conservative Catholic circles. For years, church leaders have been deeply confused about the relationship between gay men and sexual abuse. With every new abuse revelation, the tangled threads of the church’s sexual culture become even more impossible to sort out.
Study after study shows that homosexuality is not a predictor of child molestation. This is also true for priests, according to a famous study by John Jay College of Criminal Justice in the wake of revelations in 2002 about child sex abuse in the church. The John Jay research, which church leaders commissioned, found that same-sex experience did not make priests more likely to abuse minors, and that four out of five people who said they were victims were male. Researchers found no single cause for this abuse, but identified that abusive priests’ extensive access to boys had been critical to their choice of victims. 
The notion that a certain sexual identity leads to abusive behavior has demoralized gay priests for decades. Days after one man retired, he still could not shake what his archbishop in the 1970s told all the new priests headed to their first parish assignments. “He said, ‘I don’t ever want you to call me to report about your pastor, unless he is a homo or an alchie,’” he said, referring to an alcoholic. “He didn’t even know what he meant when he said homo, because we were all homos. He meant a predator, like serial predator.”
This perception persists today at prominent Catholic seminaries. At the largest in the United States, Mundelein Seminary in Illinois, few ever talk about sexual identity, said one gay student, who is afraid to ever come out. Since last summer, when Mr. McCarrick was exposed for abusing young men, students have been drilled in rules about celibacy and the evils of masturbation and pornography.
“Classmates will say, ‘Don’t admit gays,’” said the student. “Their attitude is that it is gay priests who inflict abuse on younger guys.”
Priests across the country are wondering if their sacrifice is worth the personal cost. “Am I going to leave the priesthood because I’m sick of that accusation?” asked Father Michael Shanahan, a Chicago priest who came out publicly three years ago. “Become more distant from parishioners? Am I going to hide? Become hardened, and old?”
Blaming gay men for sexual abuse is almost sure to be a major topic this week at the Vatican, at a much-anticipated four-day summit on sexual abuse. Pope Francis has called the world’s most powerful bishops to Rome to educate them on the problems of abuse, after high-profile abuse cases in the United States, Australia, Chile and elsewhere.
The event has worried gay priests. A few years after the 2002 scandal, the Vatican banned gay men from seminaries and ordination. When the abuse crisis broke out again last summer, the former Vatican ambassador to the United States, Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, accused “homosexual networks” of American cardinals of secretly working to protect abusers. And this week, a sensational book titled “Sodoma” in Europe (“In the Closet of the Vatican” in the United States) is being released that claims to expose a vast gay subculture at the Vatican. 
A group of gay priests in the Netherlands recently took the unusually bold step of writing to Pope Francis, urging him to allow gay, celibate men to be ordained.
“Instead of seeing increased accountability on the parts of the bishops, it could become once again a condemnation of lesbian, gay, transsexual people within the church,” John Coe, 63, a permanent deacon in Kentucky, who came out last year, said about the summit.
Sitting in his parish’s small counseling room, Father Greiten reflected on it all. He wished he could talk to Pope Francis himself. “Listen to my story of how the church traumatized me for being a gay man,” he asked, into the air.
“It’s not just about the sexual abuse crisis,” he said, his voice growing urgent. “They are sexually traumatizing and wounding yet another generation. We have to stand up and say no more sexual abuse, no more sexual traumatizing, no more sexual wounding. We have to get it right when it comes to sexuality.”
For now, Father Greiten was getting ready for his 15th trip to Honduras with doctors and medical supplies. A shadow box hung on the wall behind him. It displayed a scrap of purple knitting, needle still stuck in the top. He calls it “The Unfinished Gift.”
“What if every priest was truly allowed to live their life freely, openly, honestly?” he asked. “That’s my dream.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
By February 2017, Maisha Sudbeck had made peace with the idea she would never get justice. It had been five years since she was raped in Tucson by a man she had met online. The police had brushed the case off as a he-said-she-said standoff. For years, her rape evidence kit had sat untested. With two children and a new marriage, she had moved on with her life.
Then a detective knocked on her door.
The detective said a grant from the Manhattan district attorney’s office had helped the Tucson authorities clear a backlog of untested rape kits, which preserve the DNA evidence left by an attacker. After five years, Ms. Sudbeck’s kit had finally been tested, the detective said. And the police had found a match in a database of people with criminal records: a man named Nathan Loebe.
“My chapter was reopened,” Ms. Sudbeck said. “Having my kit finally tested was a catalyst for hope.”
In February, Mr. Loebe was convicted of sexually assaulting Ms. Sudbeck and six other women. Ms. Sudbeck testified against him at trial.
Ms. Sudbeck’s case is one of thousands that have gotten a second look from investigators since the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., committed $38 million in forfeiture money to help other jurisdictions test rape kits. Since the grants began being distributed in 2015, the evidence kits have led to 165 prosecutions in cases that were all but forgotten. So far, 64 of those have resulted in convictions.
Rarely have public dollars from a local prosecutor’s office been so directly tied to results with such national implications. The initiative has paid to get about 55,000 rape kits tested in 32 law enforcement agencies in 20 states, among them the police departments in Las Vegas, Philadelphia, Miami, Memphis, Austin, Tex., and Kansas City, Mo.
Nearly half produced DNA matches strong enough to be added to the F.B.I.’s nationwide database of genetic profiles. About 9,200 of those matched with DNA profiles in the system, providing new leads and potential evidence.
States across the country, meanwhile, have passed legislation to address the problem of untested rape kits. The Justice Department followed suit and started its own initiative, committing more than $150 million to continue the effort.
Mr. Vance announced the initiative in 2015, after a flood of critical stories that revealed tens of thousands of rape kits across the country were sitting untested, sometimes for decades.
Using money seized from international banks in New York that were accused of violating sanctions, Mr. Vance dedicated $38 million in grants to other law enforcement agencies to clear those backlogs. (New York City had already cleared its backlog a decade earlier.) Vice President Joe Biden announced a parallel federal program the same day.
Though the money was invested outside New York, it has helped close several cold cases in the city. “We have solved New York cases with kits tested from Florida, Michigan, North Carolina, Texas, Pennsylvania and Virginia,” Mr. Vance said.
The cases reopened and solved because of the grants include serial rapists who, for decades, preyed on women while the evidence that could have stopped them languished on shelves.
In Memphis, the police exhumed the body of Robert Brasher, a hardened criminal from Missouri who had killed himself to avoid capture, and tied him to eight sexual assaults in three states, including three that ended in murder. The key to solving those cases was an untested rape kit from a 14-year-old girl attacked in 1997 that was found to match Mr. Brasher’s DNA profile.
In Georgia, evidence collected in 2003 from a woman who was raped at gunpoint in a park was finally tested and led the police to Dandre Shabazz, who has since been linked to 14 sexual assaults committed between 2001 and 2005. Mr. Shabazz, who was already in prison for robbery, was charged with rape in April in Fulton County.
Another grant to the Las Vegas police helped solve the rape and murder of Nadia Iverson, whose body was found in May 1997 at a construction site. Her rape kit was not tested until March 2016. Last year, Arthur Sewall, 51, a former police officer, was arrested and charged with her murder after the authorities said his DNA was found to match her attacker’s.
Still, even with such successes, the problem of untested rape kits persists. Advocates for rape victims estimate that about 250,000 kits remain untested across the country.
At a news conference on Tuesday, victims whose cases had been solved with the help of grants from the Manhattan district attorney recalled how the local police had dismissed their claims or questioned whether their encounter was consensual.
The persistent backlog of rape kits in many jurisdictions has prompted criticism from advocates for rape victims over how those police departments treat rape cases, at a moment when the country is facing a moment of reckoning about sexual assault after the #MeToo movement.
“I believe fundamentally there was a gender bias at issue,” Mr. Vance said Tuesday, when asked about the backlog. “A crime mostly involving women was simply not viewed as important to solve.”
The New York authorities have not been immune to that criticism. For years, the New York Police Department’s Special Victims Division, which investigates sex crimes, has been understaffed and accused of not taking the claims of victims seriously.
A scathing 2018 report from the city’s Department of Investigation said the division was resource-starved and did not adequately investigate incidents of date-rape. In a major shake-up, the unit’s former chief, who had clashed with top brass over the division’s lack of resources, was ousted from his post in November.
The city has seen a spike in reported rapes, a trend that the police, advocates and prosecutors attribute to the #MeToo movement encouraging more women to come forward. The Police Department has responded to the criticism by adding 55 detectives to the division and naming a chief who is a woman to lead it.
“They believe they’re doing everything they can,” Mr. Vance said of the Police Department.
Law enforcement agencies that received grants will continue reporting results to the district attorney’s office through September. Mr. Vance said he expects the number of convictions and arrests helped by the grants to rise.
“They are nowhere near done,” Mr. Vance said.
In wartime, no strategy is off the table, and the militant feminist Andrea Dworkin was fighting a war — one she didn’t choose, she said, but one that the patriarchy had foisted on her. She was determined to show how women could never be free as long as they lived in a world that was structured by men’s ambitions, men’s needs, men’s desires.
Dworkin, who died in 2005 at 58, knew that in fighting this battle she would confront the problem that any woman faced whenever it was a case of her word against his: how to be believed. Being conciliatory and ingratiating, submitting oneself as sweet and quiet and ultimately harmless — those were precisely the kinds of tactics with which an individual woman, conditioned to survive on men’s terms, might obtain a reprieve but not respect.
So Dworkin decided early on to take a page from the enemy’s playbook. “My only chance to be believed is to find a way of writing bolder and stronger than woman-hating itself — smarter, deeper, colder,” she wrote in a 1995 essay. “I would have to write a prose more terrifying than rape, more abject than torture, more insistent and destabilizing than battery, more desolate than prostitution, more invasive than incest, more filled with threat and aggression than pornography.”
The hallmarks of Dworkin’s writing are all there: the confident strut; the incantatory repetition; the startling, belligerent language; the ruthless whittling down of options to a single, irrevocable point (“my only chance”). This was someone who thought deeply and read widely and was preoccupied with questions not only of justice but also of style. “Last Days at Hot Slit,” a new anthology of Dworkin’s work, shows that the caricature of her as a simplistic man-hater, a termagant in overalls, could only be sustained by not reading what she actually wrote.
The editors, Johanna Fateman and Amy Scholder, present a chronological selection from Dworkin’s books, essays, novels and unpublished fragments, making it clear that her “restless output,” as Fateman puts it in her excellent introduction, amounted to much more than saying that all sex is rape. Dworkin herself never wrote that, though she did deem a common sex act tantamount to colonialism: “The woman in intercourse is a space inhabited, a literal territory occupied literally.” Her verdict on pornography was even more extreme, equating fantasies of domination and submission with a fascist wish-fulfillment — “Dachau brought into the bedroom and celebrated.”
Such categorical edicts were what Dworkin became known (and lampooned) for, though they also happened to be the least interesting aspect of her work. A new generation of feminists have reclaimed her, seeing in Dworkin’s incandescent rage a source of illumination, even as they bristle at some of her specific views. As Moira Donegan states it succinctly in a recent essay for Bookforum, Dworkin’s “inflexible opinions” on pornography and sex work have “fallen dramatically out of fashion;” Rebecca Traister, who cites Dworkin as an inspiration in her book “Good and Mad,” says the same. The Times columnist Michelle Goldberg suggests that Dworkin’s adamant refusal to seek approval from men expands the terms of a circumscribed discussion: “To treat her writing with curiosity and respect is itself a way of demonstrating indifference to male opinion.”
Dworkin composed her work from a personal place, but she didn’t contain her experience in anecdote; she extrapolated, she deduced, she pronounced. She wrote as a woman, as a child who was molested by a stranger, as a battered wife. “I used my life in every decision I made,” she explained of her process. “It was my compass.”
She described the experience of domestic assault as “being buried alive,” channeling this sensation into her work, lending it a certain airlessness but also infusing it with an existential urgency. The women’s movement in Dworkin’s unyielding universe was no mere lifestyle choice; it was a matter of life and death. “The clarity of the survivor is chilling,” she wrote. “She sees through the social strategies that have controlled her as a woman.”
Her own clarity meant that she was finding connections everywhere, moving with inexorable determination as she methodically built her case against the monstrous order of things. “Now, I have laid out the dimensions of the rape atrocity,” she states on one page, before delivering an indictment of “the dating system” on the next. Instead of the word “sign,” with its soft, vague connotations, she was inordinately fond of the word “signet,” with all the official sanction it implied.
To make fine distinctions was to evade responsibility and, in her stark moral universe, commensurate with complicity. In 1983, addressing an audience of left-wing men, she pointedly asked: “Why are you so slow to understand the simplest things; not the complicated ideological things. You understand those.”
In her book “Pornography,” she was especially scathing on progressive men who linked sexual libertinism with women’s emancipation, seeing them as no better than conquistadors in hipster attire. (Two decades after her marriage ended, she described her abusive ex-husband as “the former flower child I am still too afraid to name.”) For all their critiques of capitalism, these men seemed remarkably untroubled when the commodity was women. “The dirty little secret of the left-wing pornography industry is not sex but commerce,” she wrote, in one of her typically cutting asides.
Dworkin published two novels — “Ice and Fire” (1986) and “Mercy” (1990) — that are excerpted here; written in wildly divergent styles, they covered overlapping autobiographical ground. After all, if male novelists could return to the same subject over and over again, why couldn’t she? “Mercy” includes a darkly funny list of alternative (and unprintable) titles of famous books by famous men: “They just never seem to get over the miracle that it’s them in a big man’s body doing all the damage; Look, ma, it’s me. Volume Twelve.”
In her first book, “Woman Hating” (whose original working title was “Last Days at Hot Slit”), Dworkin appended an afterword titled “The Great Punctuation Typography Struggle,” a river of lowercase text in which she decried her publisher for filling the previous pages with “garbage: standard punctuation.”
It’s so over-the-top that at first it seems like a lark — or, since this is Dworkin, just another example of her resolve to see oppression everywhere. Soon, though, it turns into a more searching exploration of what her confrontational approach might challenge her readers to do. “Not to think about different things,” she writes, “but to think in different ways.”
PARIS — The authorities here said on Monday that the French film director Luc Besson would face no charges after a nine-month inquiry into an actress’s accusations that he had raped her.
An official at the Paris prosecutor’s office, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in line with official policy, said that “numerous investigations” by the Paris police couldn’t show that Mr. Besson, 59, had coerced the Dutch-Belgian actress Sand Van Roy into unwanted sex.
Ms. Van Roy, a 28-year-old actress who filed a lawsuit against Mr. Besson in May and a second one in July, accused him of raping her on at least four occasions, and said he once injured her “to the point of bleeding.” In an interview with The New York Times in July, she described a two-year-long “abusive” relationship with Mr. Besson and said she was afraid to turn down his advances out of fear that it would hurt her career.
According to the first lawsuit, Ms. Van Roy told the police in May on the day after the sexual contact that she said made her bleed: “I’m afraid he might kill me, he is a psychopath.”
Mr. Besson was the first prominent figure in the French film industry to face accusations of sexual misconduct in the wake of the #MeToo revelations. A total of nine women, including actresses, a former casting director and colleagues of Mr. Besson, have described inappropriate behavior by him to the investigative website Mediapart, but only Ms. Van Roy filed a lawsuit. After the decision by the Paris prosecutor’s office, her lawsuits will be closed without further action.
Ms. Van Roy started her career as a model and later became a stand-up comedian before turning to film acting. She said she first met Mr. Besson in 2015 as she auditioned for a part in his film “Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets,” and after she obtained a small role in the movie, the two became acquainted over meetings for tea at a luxury hotel in Paris.
Ms. Van Roy told the police that Mr. Besson began approaching her sexually during the shooting of “Valerian,” and that although she was reluctant, she didn’t shun him.
But the sexual contact became rougher, she told the police in May. Ms. Van Roy told The Times that she had found Mr. Besson penetrating her on two occasions while she was asleep, and that he had once refused to use protection despite her requests.
Ms. Van Roy also shot scenes to appear in Mr. Besson’s upcoming movie “Anna,” but her role in the cast became unclear after she filed the lawsuits. The film’s release in 2019 has been delayed after Mr. Besson’s company, EuropaCorp, shut down its in-house distribution business.
Among the other women who have made allegations against Mr. Besson, an actress in her 40s who wanted to remain anonymous told the French police this month that the filmmaker had thrown himself on her and tried to kiss her by force in Paris in March 2002. The Paris prosecutor’s office said an additional preliminary investigation had been opened into those accusations. The actress told Mediapart that she didn’t file a complaint because the statute of limitations for sexual assault is six years in France.
Thierry Marembert, Mr. Besson’s lawyer, said on Monday that his client had always denied Ms. Van Roy’s accusations. “This decision comes after a very complete investigation, to which he has fully cooperated,” Mr. Marembert wrote in a release sent to the news service Agence France-Presse.
Ms. Van Roy’s lawyer, Francis Szpiner, wrote on Twitter that he would soon file a new complaint against Mr. Besson. Under French law, if a complaint filed with prosecutors is dropped — as was the case on Monday — the plaintiff, under certain conditions, can file a new complaint that automatically hands over the case to independent investigative judges. Such action also enables the plaintiff to seek both civil and criminal action.
Want more Australian news with a global perspective? Sign up here for the weekly Australia Letter.
BRISBANE, Australia — Steven Fisher was prohibited by law from identifying himself as a survivor of sexual abuse, even after the conviction of his assailant, an Anglican priest.
Saxon Mullins wanted to speak out, too, after she reported being raped in a Sydney alley, but prosecutors told her to keep quiet despite intense media attention to her case. 
“I was watching this all go by, saying, ‘That’s my life,’” she said. “It’s not just some girl. I’m real.”
Australia, a nation that prides itself on blunt talk and a “fair go” for all, often can’t seem to manage either when it comes to prosecuting the most sensitive crimes. The country shrouds law enforcement and the courts in unusual secrecy, particularly in cases of sexual and family violence. That limits public scrutiny and, critics say, tilts the scales of justice against the victims. 
Outrage has been building since at least 2017, when prosecutors in Melbourne charged Cardinal George Pell, then the country’s most senior Catholic prelate and an adviser to Pope Francis, with “historical sexual offenses” after allegations surfaced that he had abused minors beginning early in his priesthood. 
A judge sent the charges to trial in April but prevented anything from being published in Australia on the proceedings, including news of Cardinal Pell’s conviction, until Tuesday, when he lifted his suppression order. 
Even foreign news outlets with offices in Australia, including The New York Times, were forced to withhold news from their websites and readers worldwide.
Australia’s approach to law and order — with sweeping gag orders that prevent reporting on trials, a confounding web of privacy regulations and defamation laws that favor plaintiffs — are intended to protect both victims and defendants, and to ensure fairness in court.
But in the #MeToo era, and in the aftermath of the sexual abuse scandals shaking the Catholic Church, many in Australia say the emphasis on secrecy and on protecting the rights of defendants — men, mostly, when it comes to sexual violence — has gone too far, enabling a broader lack of accountability. 
“We’ve had a system for decades that privileges the privacy of the accused over the safety of the victim,” said Kate Fitz-Gibbon, a senior lecturer in criminology at Monash University in Melbourne. 
“In the most extreme cases,” Dr. Fitz-Gibbon said, “the criminal justice system becomes a site of re-victimization.”
Two years ago, a royal commission investigating how institutions have responded to child sexual abuse in Australia found evidence of major judicial problems. Conviction rates for sexual violence were far below those for other crimes, it said, and victims were avoiding the system, or being ignored by it. 
The commission published 628 pages of recommendations. Few have been adopted. 
Many advocates for reform link the lack of urgency to the secrecy that is imposed on cases of sexual violence, which they say has stifled awareness and debate.
“The opacity is the root of the problem,” said Bri Lee, 27, a lawyer who recently published a memoir of her experience as a victim of abuse and as a judge’s aide in Brisbane. 
Sitting outside the district courthouse — where a mural of unblinking eyes stands for transparency — Ms. Lee said that when she looked at the building now, she thought of all the molestation and rape cases that have taken place in its closed courtrooms. 
She recalls women and children crying on the stand during cross-examination, accused of lying, their stories never reaching the public. And she thinks of her own case, a two-year ordeal rife with administrative failures, indifference and delays.
“There’s this farce of an idea that the justice system treats everyone the same,” she said. “It doesn’t.”
Trouble often starts with the police. Ms. Lee filed a complaint in 2016 against a family friend who she said molested her as a child. But when she called to follow-up, the police said they couldn’t find her statement, forcing her to retell her story. 
The defendant ended up being convicted, but that’s rare. The Australian Institute of Criminology has estimated that less than 20 percent of sexual offenses reported to the police result in criminal charges. And within that subset, most do not end with a conviction. 
A core issue, activists say, is lack of representation. In Australia, as in the United States and other countries, crime victims are witnesses who provide evidence, and lawyers do not represent them in trial — prosecutors represent the government.
Studies show that the system produces high attrition rates for sexual violence, as discouraged victims drop out, but in some countries victims hire lawyers to speak out for them in public and with the police and prosecutors. 
In the Bill Cosby case, for example, many of the women whose sexual assault accusations fell outside the statute of limitations retained an influential lawyer, Gloria Allred. Their accounts drew attention in the news media, and strengthened the prosecution’s case in court, because the judge allowed some of them to testify.
This rarely happens in Australia. It is difficult for prosecutors to introduce so-called “tendency” evidence about other allegations against a defendant, a legal norm that the royal commission said should be changed.
And even victims of high-profile crimes here generally do not hire lawyers, in part because prosecutors urge them to remain anonymous and because laws and court rulings make it difficult — or illegal — for them to speak out.
Some victims appreciate the tilt toward privacy. The main complainant in Cardinal Pell’s abuse trial issued a statement Tuesday asking reporters not to identify him and seeking “space and time to cope with the ongoing criminal process.” 
But other sexual assault survivors argue that gag orders — like the one censoring Cardinal Pell’s prosecution — encourage the culture of secrecy that lets abuse thrive.
And in a country where defamation and privacy laws favor anyone whose reputation might be besmirched, even a little, the costs of silence-breaking can be severe. Dozens of journalists now face jail terms for publishing vague references to the Pell verdict, while survivors often face civil threats of their own. 
Susan Prince, an actress and theater director in Cairns, simply described herself in a 2016 interview with Australia’s main public broadcaster as a former victim of domestic abuse. Though she did not name her ex-husband, he sued. 
She had to start a GoFundMe campaign to pay all the legal bills and because the case has not been formally dismissed, she said she still worries she’s vulnerable. 
“If survivors can’t name their perpetrators then what happens?” she asked. “It means more survivors will be terrified of coming forward.”
The law censors some victims even after a trial and conviction. In Tasmania, for example, it is a crime to identify sexual assault survivors even when victims consent. There is a similar law in the Northern Territory.
“This has got to the point of being ridiculous,” said Mr. Fisher, 52, who was abused by an Anglican priest in rural Tasmania as a child. 
He said he spent thousands of dollars in legal fees getting the court’s permission to speak out and identify himself after the priest’s conviction; 16 years after his case ended, he added, the law is still on the books, something he and others are trying to change. 
Empowerment is the issue, said Ms. Mullins, 23, who prosecutors persuaded to remain silent after she reported being raped in 2013 at the age of 18. 
The law, prosecutors and the courts “took away my story,” she said. 
The news outlets covering her case never identified her even but they did name and report on the defendant. He argued that her silence during intercourse amounted to consent. 
And when he ultimately won an acquittal last year after two trials and an appeal, Ms. Mullins said the anonymity she had maintained became unbearable. 
She finally outed herself last year in an article titled “I am That Girl.” Now, she said she speaks up often so neither public officials nor the young men she meets can hide from the issue or pretend they don’t know a survivor.
“I lived this,” she said, explaining what she would like the justice system to fully grasp. “I’m not just a witness.”
Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.
The monsters in “A Vigilante” look deceptively ordinary. One wears an everyday business suit and tie; another is dressed in a simple T-shirt and pants, though it’s hard to make out what he’s wearing because he’s trussed up, on his knees, beaten down. Abusers, each endures the kind of ostensibly righteous retribution that tends to be visited on men by other men in exploitation flicks like “Death Wish.” On occasion, a woman steps into the vigilante role — at times, after she’s raped, as in “I Spit on Your Grave” — seeking personal payback through a violent cleansing that can widen into a feminist critique.
The writer-director Sarah Daggar-Nickson shrewdly doesn’t lead with politics in “A Vigilante,” instead letting them surface as a matter of course as she fills in the satisfyingly lean, mean story. It centers on Sadie (Olivia Wilde, all in physically), who after fleeing her husband has become a lone-wolf avenger of other abuse victims. They reach her by phone, leaving the same cryptic S.O.S. — “I’m looking out the window, and the trucks won’t stop coming” — before detailing where they live and when it’s safe for Sadie to visit. “I have two children who come home at 4, and I don’t want them to get hurt,” one woman tremulously explains in her message. “He’ll hurt them if I leave.”
Vigilantism is a questionable fantasy of empowerment, but Daggar-Nickson makes her movie (largely) work by keeping everything — her antihero, the registers of violence — austere and persuasively low key. By the time the story opens, Sadie appears to have been at this vengeance business for some time. She has her routines and her disguises, and a map fixed to the wall. She’s either running or on the hunt; it’s unclear. She lives in what looks like a motel or just the saddest, emptiest of homes, where she sleeps with a large knife under her pillow. Every so often, she starts hyperventilating, spiraling into panic that is eased only by a drawing that she clutches to her like a lover or a child.
Daggar-Nickson pieces together the puzzle of Sadie’s life with some sly misdirection. When the camera isn’t on Sadie pummeling a boxing bag or dispatching another domestic abuser, the story shifts to some women living in what appears to be a halfway house. At first, Sadie seems to be a peripheral presence here as the emphasis remains on the other women, their tears and terrors, as well as the warm, no-nonsense counselor (Tonye Patano) whose insistent encouragement elegantly helps fill in narrative blanks. When the counselor looks at all the women — reminding them how they “grabbed that freedom and got out of there” — Sadie and her story movingly shift into sharper focus.
Whether Sadie’s embrace of vengeance is a radical form of therapy, an act of extreme political activism or just a dangerous way to exorcise personal demons remains open to interpretation. Daggar-Nickson gestures in certain directions, but for the most part she avoids deeper, troubling questions about retribution and violence. Instead, she concentrates on the genre basics, as in the movie’s admirably hard-core final face-off, even as she insists that we keep our attention fixed on Sadie. There’s something galvanizing about this woman, but also something agonizing about both her loneliness and the bloody, bruised fists that she keeps throwing — again and again and again.
JUPITER, Fla. — Something was amiss at a massage parlor near one of the wealthiest barrier islands in Florida.
First, a health inspector spotted several suitcases. Then she noticed an unusual stash of clothing, food and bedding. A young woman who was supposed to be a massage therapist spoke little English and seemed unusually nervous.
The inspector reported her findings to the police. They would eventually learn that her suspicions were right: The women were not just employees: They were living in the day spa, sleeping on massage tables and cooking meals on hot plates in the back. Some of them had had their passports confiscated.
The inspector’s suspicions prompted a sprawling investigation across four Florida counties and two states — Florida and New York — over nearly eight months, resulting in the disruption of what authorities say was a multimillion-dollar human-trafficking and prostitution operation.
The sweep led to criminal charges last week against several rich, prominent men, including Robert K. Kraft, the billionaire owner of the New England Patriots; John Havens, former president and chief operating officer of Citigroup; and John Childs, founder of the private equity firm J.W. Childs Associates.
Beyond the lurid celebrity connection, however, lies the wretched story of women who the police believe were brought from China under false promises of new lives and legitimate spa jobs. Instead, they found themselves trapped in the austere back rooms of strip-mall brothels — trafficking victims trapped among South Florida’s rich and famous.
“I don’t believe they were told they were going to work in massage parlors seven days a week, having unprotected sex with up to 1,000 men a year,” said Sheriff William D. Snyder of Martin County, whose office opened the investigation. “We saw them eating on hot plates in the back. There were no washing machines. They were sleeping on the massage tables.”
The women were shuttled from place to place — not only to nearby parlors but also across the state, said Sheriff Snyder. Sheriff’s deputies in Orange County, Fla., became involved in the investigation when women from the state’s Treasure Coast region were traced back to the Orlando area.
Sheriff Snyder said he believed at least some of the women were working to pay off debt owed for what it cost to bring them to the United States. In some cases, the women’s passports were taken away. Traffickers cycled women in and out of parlors every 10 or 20 days, Sheriff Snyder estimated.
Yet making a trafficking case remains difficult, in part because the women who were victims may not want to cooperate with the police. Only one has been talking to deputies, Sheriff Snyder said. He had lined up about a dozen Mandarin interpreters, but many other women refused to speak and were let go with an offer of assistance.
“I would never consider them prostitutes — it was really a rescue operation,” the sheriff said, training his anger at the men whose demand for sex kept the massage parlors in business. “The monsters are the men,” he added.
In addition to arresting men ranging in age from their 30s to at least one in his 80s, the police charged several women who appeared to be overseeing the operation with racketeering, money laundering and prostitution.
Sheriff Snyder said investigators, who worked with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, estimated the trafficking ring to be a $20 million international operation. Men paid between $100 and $200 for sex, the sheriff said; between $2 million and $3 million has been seized in Florida, he said, including a safe stuffed with Rolex watches.
State Attorney Dave Aronberg of Palm Beach County, whose office leads a human trafficking task force with the F.B.I., said trafficking foreigners to work in places like massage parlors can be more difficult to root out than trafficking, for example, American girls who are recruited in person or online.
“They come from countries where the police are part of the problem, and they’re smuggled into the country,” Mr. Aronberg said.
Laura Cusack, a social worker in charge of the human trafficking prevention and education program at Place of Hope, an agency for foster children and trafficking victims in Boca Raton, said foreign victims were often threatened by traffickers in their home countries.
“They’re told by traffickers, ‘I’ve got people waiting for you,’” she said. When social workers urge victims like that to come forward to the police, they say, “‘No, you don’t understand. They’re trying to find my little sister back home. They’re trying to find my daughter,’” Ms. Cusack said.
Mr. Havens, the former Citigroup executive, was elevated to the post in 2011 by his longtime confidant, Vikram Pandit, Citi’s chief executive. The two became friends as senior executives at Morgan Stanley before they both left in 2005 to start Old Lane Partners, a hedge fund that was acquired by Citigroup two years later for $800 million. Both resigned from Citi on the same day in 2012, after the Federal Reserve indicated Citi was not healthy enough after the financial crisis to start paying more money back to shareholders.
Through a spokesman, Mr. Kraft, 77, denied engaging in illegal activity, and Mr. Childs in a statement to Bloomberg also denied the charges.
That such a lucrative trafficking network existed near the ritzy enclaves of Jupiter Island, home to the likes of golfer Tiger Woods, and Palm Beach, home to President Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate, seemed unfathomable to some of the gawkers who posed for selfies — and in some cases cracked off-color jokes — on Friday outside the Orchids of Asia massage parlor in Jupiter, the enterprise that officials said Mr. Kraft had visited.
But Palm Beach was also the place where a well-connected billionaire financier from New York, Jeffrey E. Epstein, was accused a decade ago of molesting dozens of underage girls — some of them runaways or foster children who are vulnerable to sex trafficking. A federal judge ruled on Thursday that prosecutors violated the rights of Mr. Epstein’s victims by failing to inform them of a plea deal that would protect him from sex-trafficking charges.
The massage-parlor investigation began farther north, in Hobe Sound, a strip of mainland in Martin County where on July 6 the health inspector reported the signs of potential trafficking at the Bridge Day Spa, according to the arrest affidavit for one of the men. Sheriff’s deputies identified the spa’s owner and another nearby property under her name. They searched online forums where users posted about sex acts performed at the massage parlors. Based on the evidence they collected, they obtained a warrant to conduct surveillance.
That approach was far more labor-intensive than past investigations, in which undercover deputies would go into the parlors and arrest women for prostitution, said Sheriff Snyder, a former Republican state representative who helped write Florida’s law against human trafficking.
“I made this decision that we had enough of that: Let’s go after the traffickers,” he said. “I feel, on some level, extremely dissatisfied that I can’t do more. I know that we don’t even make a dent.”
In the case of the Orchids of Asia parlor in Jupiter, where services were listed for $59 for half an hour or $79 for an hour, an arrest affidavit for the women managing the spa detailed a similar investigative approach. Police officers watched men going into the spa for 30 to 45 minutes at a time.
Once they left, officers followed the men, pulled them over for traffic violations and confronted them about paying for sex. That evidence led to warrants for surveillance cameras, which police secretly installed inside the massage parlors — apparently under the ruse of a possible bomb threat.
All of the men arrested in Jupiter were filmed paying for manual or oral sexual stimulation, according to police. Sheriff Snyder said the sex acts his deputies recorded in Martin County included sexual intercourse.
Law enforcement spent several weeks identifying the clients, and the women managing the trafficking victims, as well as tracing their finances. Police and prosecutors wrote up their criminal charges and raided the massage parlors on Tuesday.
By then, however, some of the women they had identified as victims had been moved elsewhere. New women had taken their place.
BUENOS AIRES — The 11-year-old made her wishes clear: She wanted to end the pregnancy that resulted from a rape at the hands of her grandmother’s boyfriend.
“I want you to remove what the old man put inside me,” the girl told doctors, according to her lawyers.
The law was on her side; rape is among the few instances in which females in Argentina may legally have an abortion.
But authorities in her northern province stalled for weeks, forcing the girl to have a C-section on Wednesday, delivering a baby who experts say is unlikely to survive. The case has reignited a fierce debate over reproductive rights in Argentina, which last year came close to legalizing abortion for pregnancies up to 14 weeks.
Coming weeks after a similar case in another northern province, in which a 12-year-old girl was forced to undergo a C-section to deliver a baby who survived four days, the latest birth underscored the challenges girls and women in Argentina face when they seek to have abortions.
As outrage over the latest case spread across the nation, Argentine women flooded social media with photos of themselves as 11-year-olds, posted with the hashtag #NiñasNoMadres, which means “girls, not mothers.”
Among them was Thelma Fardin, a prominent actress who set off a national conversation about sexual harassment and abuse last year when she accused a co-star of raping her when she was 16 and he was 45.
The 11-year-old girl, whose lawyers refer to as Lucía, a pseudonym, went to a clinic in a rural area of Tucumán Province on Jan. 29 after experiencing a severe stomachache for several days.
Doctors discovered she was 19 weeks pregnant and sent her to a public hospital in Banda del Río Salí, just outside the provincial capital, two days later. Authorities say the girl became pregnant after being raped by her grandmother’s boyfriend, who has been arrested.
At the hospital, Lucía and her mother made clear that they wanted to terminate the pregnancy. Over the following days, the girl and her relatives were caught up the nation’s abortion wars as local officials and activists took steps to stop her from having an abortion.
Abortion is illegal in Argentina. But for nearly a century, it has been allowed in cases of rape and in instances in which the pregnancy poses a life-threatening risk to the mother.
Yet, instead of arranging for her to terminate the pregnancy, officials at the hospital gave Lucía drugs that accelerated the development of the fetus, according to her lawyers.
“These were all delaying tactics to pass the time and force the girl to give birth,” said Celia Debono, the Argentina coordinator of the Latin American and Caribbean Committee for the Defense of Women’s Rights. “They said they were giving her vitamins when they were giving her medication to mature the fetus.”
The hospital also allowed anti-abortion activists to visit Lucía’s hospital room, where they urged her to have the baby, warning that she otherwise would never get to be a mother, said Fernanda Marchese, the executive director of Human Rights and Social Studies Lawyers of Northeastern Argentina, which is representing Lucía and her family.
While Lucía remained hospitalized, provincial authorities released little information about the case. As they grew restless, relatives of the girl sent an email to Ni Una Menos, a group that fights violence against women and has become a leading voice in an effort to legalize abortion.
When lawyers from the group arrived at Lucía’s bedside on Monday, “we were faced with a situation that was desperate and anguishing,” Ms. Marchese said. “The family was not given the proper information to be able to exercise its rights.”
Reproductive rights groups filed emergency lawsuits that led to a court order instructing the hospital to carry out an abortion at once. Yet, doctors there refused, declaring themselves conscientious objectors.
A pair of private-sector doctors agreed to terminate the pregnancy at the request of the hospital. Because the pregnancy was so far along and the girl had a slight frame, the doctors saw no choice but to perform a C-section, said Cecilia Ousset, who performed the procedure with her husband, José Gigena.
“When we were faced with this girl, I almost became sick, my knees turned weak,” Dr. Ousset said. “She wasn’t developed and was playing with toys and her mom.”
In the operating room, Dr. Ousset put on music to try to make Lucía more comfortable, but the girl’s blood pressure rose to a perilous level.
“The girl’s life was at risk,” Dr. Ousset said during a phone interview.
Genetic material from the umbilical cord will now be analyzed and could serve as proof to prosecute the man charged with raping Lucía.
Lucía is healthy and should be discharged from the hospital soon, Ms. Debono said.
Abortion-rights activists have long said that there is so much pressure from anti-abortion sectors that some doctors refuse to carry out the procedure, afraid of legal and professional reprisal.
After the procedure was finished, a group of anti-abortion activists protested outside the hospital, as they had done for weeks.
Many of these activists appear to have become involved by heeding the call of the archbishop of Tucumán, Carlos Sánchez, who sent out a mass audio message using a cellphone text messaging app in which he used Lucía’s real name and called on the faithful to “guard” the life of the fetus.
Catholic and evangelical leaders have aggressively fought efforts to legalize abortion.
Provincial authorities have denied any wrongdoing. But since the case began making headlines this week, Gov. Juan Manzur’s administration and judicial officials have traded blame for the way in which the case was handled.
A news release issued by the local health ministry about the case said the C-section was intended to “save the two lives,” echoing a slogan used by activists who oppose legalizing abortion.
Although the case has gained notoriety, many say it reflects a reality in parts of Argentina.
“In the north of Argentina,” Dr. Ousset said, “there are lots of Lucías and there are lots of professionals who turn their back on them.”
Amazon Studios returned fire on Woody Allen on Wednesday, saying in a court filing that it was “justified in terminating” movie deals with the filmmaker and pointing to his public comments about the #MeToo movement as proof.
Mr. Allen, 83, sued Amazon in federal court on Feb. 7 for at least $68 million, claiming that the company’s Hollywood division had improperly backed out of commitments to make and release four movies. Amazon had severed ties with Mr. Allen in June, citing, among other things, a new focus on allegations that he sexually abused his daughter Dylan Farrow in 1992. He has denied any wrongdoing and has not been charged with a crime.
Early Wednesday evening, Amazon electronically filed a motion in Federal District Court in Manhattan that seeks to weaken Mr. Allen’s lawsuit by having four of its eight claims thrown out. For instance, Amazon lawyers attacked his assertion that the company unjustly enriched itself by publicizing their partnership — around 2016, before things turned sour — to attract other writers and directors to its stable.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Allen said he had no comment.
Amazon’s motion did not address Mr. Allen’s core claims of breach of contract, except to say in its introduction that the company was “justified in terminating its relationship with Allen and plaintiffs ultimately will not recover any of the relief they seek.” The motion, filed by Robert N. Klieger, known for serving as one of the media mogul Sumner Redstone’s go-to litigators, backed up that assertion by painting Mr. Allen as bumbling in managing his public image.
“He failed to grasp the gravity of the issues or the implications for his own career,” Mr. Klieger wrote, referring to public comments that Mr. Allen made beginning in late 2017 as the #MeToo movement swept across the globe.
Mr. Klieger, for instance, cited a BBC interview in which Mr. Allen seemed to express sympathy for Harvey Weinstein, the accused Hollywood producer. Mr. Allen was also seen as pouring cold water on the #MeToo movement, saying, “You don’t want it to lead to a witch-hunt atmosphere, a Salem atmosphere, where every guy in an office who winks at a woman is suddenly having to call a lawyer to defend himself.”
(Mr. Allen subsequently clarified himself, calling Mr. Weinstein, who has been accused of sexual harassment going back decades, a “sad, sick man.” Mr. Weinstein, who is now facing criminal charges, has denied any wrongdoing.)
By January 2018, when Ms. Farrow publicly re-accused Mr. Allen of molesting her when she was 7, stars were beginning to distance themselves from him, imperiling future films.
“The response from the film industry was swift and damning,” Amazon’s filing said. “Scores of actors and actresses expressed profound regret for having worked with Allen in the past, and many declared publicly that they would never work with him in the future.” Mr. Klieger added that Mr. Allen’s public comments “effectively sabotaged” the release of “Wonder Wheel,” which Amazon pushed into theaters in late 2017. It collected a disastrous $1.4 million in North America.
In the meantime, Mr. Allen is planning to make a film in Spain, financed by a conglomerate based in Barcelona. He is expected to begin production as soon as this summer. There has been no word on casting or distribution.
WHAT DOESN’T KILL YOU MAKES YOU BLACKER A Memoir in Essays By Damon Young
Damon Young has something to say about modern black life. The only question is: Which Damon Young is speaking? In his debut collection, a “memoir in essays,” Young fires an admirable volley into the robust field of memoirs by black American men. The book bridges his notable start as the co-founder and editor of the popular blog Very Smart Brothas and his most recent career as a cultural critic for mainstream publications. The shift in genre — from the snappy voice of blogging to the more erudite prose of the kind of long-form essays found in men’s magazines like GQ, where Young is a columnist — is uneven at times. Young may have moved on up from the corners of the internet, but his reflections on modern life lack a consistent, confident point of view. Is he speaking as his former or current self? When, precisely, does his voice shift from “around the way” boy to reflective man? These essays toggle between Young’s dueling narrative styles, and in the end the reader cannot be certain which is the definitive one.
Still, “What Doesn’t Kill You Makes You Blacker” is a worthwhile read, especially given the current popularity of the black male memoir. His most notable contribution to that field is a voice steeped not in “black cool” but in what one might call black male emo. Young has emotions, and he may have more than a touch of social anxiety. He is nervous and angst-ridden and smart enough to label his feelings. His description of the “day-to-day abstract humiliation” of not having a driver’s license until he was 26 is a painfully honest account of the toll that ennui takes on black social mobility. The strongest essays are those in which he embraces that voice — the uncertain one that uses humor to interact with a world that expects him to be far more self-assured than he feels. When writing in that register, Young shines with often sad commentary. His memory of the time he and his father discovered that a 15-year-old neighbor boy was working as a prostitute, dressed like a woman, packs an emotional wallop with a begrudging laugh. The vignette appears in a particularly moving story about how and why Young, raised in a black Pittsburgh conversational tradition known as the “dozens” (“also commonly known as roasting”), is so very bad at it when it matters most. That essay joins meditations on compulsive heterosexuality as among the most poignant in this collection.
[ Read more about Damon Young in our recent profile. ]
Like many young men who have publicly come of age during the black feminist theory era of popular culture, Young knows the right things to say. He knows that sex work can be predatory and that rape is violence and that heteronormativity is oppressive. Whether Young has figured out how to actually live these beliefs remains elusive.
Still, many readers will relate to these essays if they’ve ever struggled to find their authentic selves beneath the visage of pop-culture caricatures of who one should be: black cool, millennial chic, radical Afro-centric slam poet, good guy or hood gangsta. Unlike some of his fellow black male memoirists, Young has not ascended to the Ivy League or retreated entirely into a world of wealth and privilege. Young just wants to be himself, even if he is not yet quite sure of who that is.
The R&B singer Chris Brown filed a false accusation complaint in Paris on Thursday against a woman who accused him of rape last week.
On Tuesday, Mr. Brown was released without charge following questioning by the Paris police over an allegation that he raped a woman at a hotel in the city.
The one-page complaint, submitted by Raphael Chiche, Mr. Brown’s lawyer, asks the Paris Public Prosecutor’s office to investigate the claim as a criminal matter. The charge carries a penalty of five years in prison and a fine of around $50,000. Mr. Chiche did not respond to a request for further comment.
Mr. Brown, 29, was taken into custody on Monday and questioned about an accusation of aggravated rape. A woman filed the complaint with the Paris police on Jan. 18, accusing him of raping her at his hotel after they met at a nightclub.
On Tuesday, after his release, Mr. Brown posted a picture on Instagram that said “This b!tch lyin’.” In the caption for the picture, Mr. Brown wrote in capital letters that he wanted to “make it perfectly clear” that “this is false.”
“For my daughter and my family this is so disrespectful and is against my character and morals,” he wrote. The post is no longer available.
On Wednesday night, Le Parisien, a daily newspaper, published an interview with Mr. Brown’s accuser. Le Parisien said she was 24 years old, originally from Algeria and was studying theater, but the newspaper did not reveal her name.
The woman said that on the night of Jan. 15, she was about to leave a gathering in Mr. Brown’s room at the upscale Mandarin Oriental hotel when she went to the bathroom. There, Mr. Brown assaulted her, she said. She also said that she was later raped by one of Mr. Brown’s bodyguards, then a friend of the singer, too.
“My life’s shattered,” the woman told Le Parisien.
“If I filed a complaint, it’s not for the money,” she added. “If anything, I want justice. And to make sure the horror of what I went through does not happen to another girl.”
Jean-Marc Descoubes, the woman’s lawyer, said in a telephone interview on Thursday that he had not seen Mr. Brown’s complaint. “My client maintains her accusations against Chris Brown and the others. She will be carrying on,” he said.
Mr. Brown has been involved in a string of violent episodes over the past few years. In July, he was arrested in connection with a nightclub dispute from April 2017, when he was accused of punching a photographer in Tampa, Fla. In May, a woman sued him, saying he held her against her will at his Los Angeles house last year while a friend of his raped her. He was arrested in 2016 on a charge of assault with a deadly weapon after a standoff at his home.
In 2009, Mr. Brown pleaded guilty to one count of felony assault on his girlfriend at the time, the singer Rihanna.
Despite the legal troubles, Mr. Brown has remained a popular artist with an ardent fan base. He has won several industry prizes, including the 2012 Grammy for best R&B album for “F.A.M.E.,” and he performed at that year’s Grammy ceremony. His most recent album, “Heartbreak on a Full Moon,” opened at No. 3 on the Billboard album chart in late 2017.
JAKARTA — At a recent election rally, former Indonesian general Prabowo Subianto repeatedly banged his hand on a podium while urging the boisterous crowd to defend the country against foreign interests. 
Such fiery rhetoric, a strongman image, and strong ties with hardline Islamist groups have bolstered support for Prabowo, 67, who is taking on incumbent President Joko Widodo in a battle on Wednesday to lead the world's third-largest democracy.
Most opinion polls show Widodo has a double-digit lead but some recent surveys have shown Prabowo catching up. 
Critics say Prabowo's campaign message, much like U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016, played up potential threats to Indonesia. In speeches, he often says the country is on the verge of fragmentation, at the mercy of unspecified foreign powers. 
"The Indonesian motherland is being raped," Prabowo told another massive rally in a stadium in central Jakarta, as tens of thousands of supporters, many dressed in white Islamic clothes, chanted his name.
A former special forces commander in the military, Prabowo comes from an elite political family. His father was one of Indonesia's most prominent economists, serving in the cabinets of both presidents Sukarno and Suharto.Election officials say Prabowo declared personal wealth of 1.9 trillion rupiah ($135 million) in August, versus Widodo's 50 billion ($3.6 million), according to news website Detik.
Prabowo has long harbored ambitions for the top job, but a lack of support meant he sat out the 2004 election and ran as vice president on a losing ticket in 2009.
It was only by 2014 that, as head of the Great Indonesia Movement (Gerindra) party, he gained enough support to run and came within six percentage points of beating Widodo. 
This time, Prabowo has consolidated support from hardline Islamist groups such as the Islamic Defenders Front (FPI) and religious parties, fuelling concern about the influence of conservative Islam on future policy-making should he win.
"In the scenario of a Prabowo presidency, he will have to reward his supporters and the political Islam side will take credit for his victory," said Achmad Sukarsono, a political analyst at Control Risks.
"Having said that, he understands the concerns of the influence of Islam and will try to balance that with his own and his Christian family's opinions."
Prabowo is likely to offer opportunities for supporters in the country's budding sharia economy, he added, such as curbing businesses that offend Islamic sentiments, like alcohol or sensitive publications. 
Prabowo has denied accusations of wanting to turn Indonesia into a caliphate, and says the diversity of religion in his own family is proof that he will uphold the official secular state ideology. 
Prabowo was accused of human rights abuses during his military career, chiefly over unrest that brought down his former father-in-law and long-serving autocratic leader Suharto in 1998 and led to his discharge.
He has repeatedly denied the allegations or said he was following orders. 
Just days ahead of the vote, Prabowo and his campaign team have cast doubt on the credibility of voter lists and the integrity of election machinery, vowing to contest the results and even mobilize street protests if they discern any cheating.
In 2014, Prabowo refused to concede defeat for two weeks, even though early results showed Widodo had won. He contested the official results in the Constitutional Court, which confirmed Widodo's victory.
The campaign has also said internal and external poll numbers give Prabowo a clear lead, but has declined to explain its methodology. 
 (Reporting by Kanupriya Kapoor; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
The producer of the coming film “Red Sonja” said on Thursday that he was keeping the director Bryan Singer at the helm of the movie, suggesting that newly detailed allegations of sexual misconduct against Singer were “fake news.”
Singer, 53, is a prominent Hollywood director, with credits including “The Usual Suspects,” “X-Men” and “Bohemian Rhapsody.” Singer was fired from “Bohemian Rhapsody” for not showing up at work, but still received a directing credit on the movie, which is nominated for a best picture Oscar.
“The over $800 million ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ has grossed, making it the highest grossing drama in film history, is testament to his remarkable vision and acumen,” Avi Lerner, the chairman of Millennium Films and executive producer of “Red Sonja,” said in a statement. “I know the difference between agenda driven fake news and reality, and I am very comfortable with this decision. In America people are innocent until proven guilty.”
The pointed statement came one day after The Atlantic published an investigation into Singer, documenting years of allegations that included molesting a 13-year-old boy on the set of the movie “Apt Pupil” and having sex with underage boys.
Singer denied those allegations in a statement on Wednesday.
“It’s sad that The Atlantic would stoop to this low standard of journalistic integrity,” Singer said. “And it is no surprise that, with ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ being an award-winning hit, this homophobic smear piece has been conveniently timed to take advantage of its success.”
“Red Sonja” is based on a female comic book heroine who is a survivor of rape. And while the film’s producer is sticking with Singer, others have condemned him. GLAAD, the gay-rights advocacy group, removed “Bohemian Rhapsody” as a candidate for its Media Awards on Thursday, saying that the allegations highlighted in The Atlantic “cannot be ignored or even tacitly rewarded.”
“‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ brought the story of LGBTQ icon Freddy Mercury to audiences around the world, many of whom never saw an out and proud lead character in a film or saw the impact of H.I.V. and AIDS in fair and accurate ways,” GLAAD said in a statement. “ We believe, however, that we must send a clear and unequivocal message to LGBTQ youth and all survivors of sexual assault that GLAAD and our community will stand with survivors and will not be silent when it comes to protecting them from those who would do them harm.”
GLAAD also said that Singer’s denial “wrongfully used ‘homophobia’ to deflect from sexual assault allegations and GLAAD urges the media and the industry at large to not gloss over the fact that survivors of sexual assault should be put first.”
And in a statement released around the same time as Lerner’s remarks, the anti-sexual-harassment group Time’s Up called the allegations against Singer “horrifying.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Our team of Washington reporters uncovered a secretive layer of President Trump’s public war on the investigations encircling him, particularly that of the special counsel, Robert Mueller.
They interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump and reviewed confidential White House documents, finding numerous unreported episodes of pressure and intimidation over the last two years that may expose him to accusations of obstruction of justice.
Their published report, at 4,500 words, is our most-read article today.
Separately, House Democrats are investigating an administration effort to bring nuclear power plants to Saudi Arabia despite repeated warnings that potential conflicts of interest around the plan could put U.S. security at risk.
_____
2. Sixteen states have banded together to challenge President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the border, setting up a constitutional clash over the scope of presidential emergency powers.
Their lawsuit argues that the president doesn’t have the power to divert federal funds to build his promised border wall because Congress controls spending. House Democrats are also gearing up to confront the president. Above, workers reinforcing a section of the border fence near Tijuana, Mexico.
Our limited-run weekly newsletter, Crossing the Border, offers a deeper understanding of an issue that seems to have taken over the U.S. political agenda.
_____
3. Bernie Sanders makes 12.
The Vermont senator announced his 2020 presidential campaign, a bid that will test whether he can retain the anti-establishment appeal he enjoyed with liberal voters in 2016. A self-styled democratic socialist, Mr. Sanders believes his policy ideas now have support from many more Americans, including Medicare for all, a $15 minimum wage and tuition-free public colleges. Above, Mr. Sanders at the Iowa State Homecoming Parade in October.
Here’s the full Democratic field (so far).
_____
4. Egyptian officials detained a veteran Times correspondent and forced him back to London without explanation, in an escalation of a severe crackdown against the news media under President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
In another case, the photojournalist pictured above, Mahmoud Abou Zeid, was due to be released in September after five years in prison but remains in detention.
The Times correspondent, David Kirkpatrick, a former Cairo bureau chief, was denied entry at the Cairo airport and held without food or water for seven hours. His phone was confiscated. Eventually, he was escorted on a plane back to London, where his passport was finally returned.
Separately, in a domestic move regarding First Amendment rights, Justice Clarence Thomas called for reconsideration of the Supreme Court’s landmark 1964 libel ruling in New York Times v. Sullivan.
_____
5. American teachers have mounted the most sustained educator protest movement in decades — and it doesn’t show any signs of stopping.
Teachers walked out of classrooms again in West Virginia on Tuesday, above, helping to kill a bill that would have allowed tax dollars to pay for private school tuition and established charter schools in the state for the first time. Those in Oakland, Calif., plan a strike for Thursday.
We look at the resilience of a movement that has grown from demanding higher wages and benefits for educators to a broader push for school reform.
_____
6. The Roman Catholic Church confirmed that it has general guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and end up fathering children, a growing issue that strikes at the heart of the Vatican’s culture of secrecy.
It appears to be the first admission that such a practice existed. The children are often a result of affairs, though some are the product of rape or abuse. Above, Vincent Doyle, the son of a priest.
Some of these children are among those descending on Rome to press their cause during the Vatican’s unprecedented meeting this week on the child sexual abuse crisis.
Separately, Southern Baptists announced plans to address sexual abuse in the wake of an investigation by The Houston Chronicle and The San Antonio Express-News. The reporting revealed that nearly 400 Southern Baptist leaders had been accused of sexual misconduct or crimes against more than 700 victims since 1998.
_____
7. What if stemming the tide of misinformation on YouTube means punishing some of its biggest stars?
It’s a question vexing the platform as it tries to rein in bad actors with a new recommendation algorithm. Instead of aiming to maximize the amount of time users spend on the site — rewarding those who traded in viral stunts and baseless rumor-mongering — the company says it is trying to reduce the spread of “borderline content and content that could misinform users in harmful ways.”
And harmful, our tech and culture columnist notes, is a circular notion: “A conspiracy theory is harmful if it results in harm — at which point it’s often too late for platforms to act.”
_____
8. “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat.”
That was the witty, highly recognizable Karl Lagerfeld, the most prolific designer of the 20th and 21st centuries. He died in Paris at the age of 85, after a career that reshaped the fashion industry.
As the creative director at Chanel since 1983 and Fendi since 1965, Mr. Lagerfeld, above in 2002, achieved an unparalleled level of fame. He also created a new kind of designer: a shape-shifter, reinventing heritage brands with dollops of pop culture, our chief fashion critic writes in his obituary.
Virginie Viard, the creative studio director at Chanel, will take the helm of the fashion house.
_____
9. Our Opinion section has been looking at how the events of 1919 shaped the modern era.
Consider jazz: A century ago, many in the U.S. considered it no more than a novelty. But then the famed Harlem Hellfighters 369th Infantry regiment marched through Manhattan during celebrations over the end of World War I. All ears were on its band, above.
Led by Lt. James Reese Europe, an immensely successful and well-known African-American musician, the band — and its renown abroad — surfaced in nearly every account of the parade, writes David Sager, a research assistant at the Library of Congress, jazz historian and jazz trombonist.
Between that and a young cornetist named Louis Armstrong, he argues, 1919 “was the year jazz came into its own.”
_____
10. Finally, we end with a touch of wanderlust.
For his second destination in a yearlong journey, our 52 Places Traveler landed on the Pacific Coast of Panama and found himself daydreaming about being swallowed up by the little town of Santa Catalina. (He got us dreaming, too.)
“I could find a new rhythm, dictated by when the waves were good for surfing and the visibility was good for diving,” he writes, “in a place where even the Wi-Fi takes things slow, restaurant menus depend on what’s been caught that day and everything is just quieter.”
Have an imaginative night.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
SAN FRANCISCO — Kamala Harris was three months into her tenure as San Francisco district attorney in 2004 when a gang member killed a police officer with a hail of bullets from an AK-47. Her announcement within three days of the murder that she would not seek the death penalty set off protests from her fellow Democrats as well as from the police.
Senator Dianne Feinstein stood in front of thousands of mourners at the officer’s funeral at St. Mary’s Cathedral and urged her to change her mind; Jerry Brown, the once and future governor, was among those standing in ovation. The state attorney general threatened to take over the case, and Senator Barbara Boxer asked the Justice Department to prosecute it.
Ms. Harris, the first person of color elected as this city’s district attorney, declared her decision a matter of principle: The death penalty, she believed, discriminated against poor and black people and would not deter more killing.
But death penalty opponents wondered a decade later where that principle had gone when as California’s attorney general Ms. Harris appealed a judge’s decision declaring the state’s death penalty law unconstitutional. She said it was a matter of upholding the law; her critics asked whether she would have similarly defended segregation and statutes against interracial marriage.
Now Ms. Harris is running for president as a “progressive prosecutor.” She says she sees no contradiction in the term, arguing that a tough prosecutor can also be a force for reforming the criminal-justice system. But already, mere weeks into her candidacy, she is facing a chorus of skepticism, especially from the left. The death penalty episode shows the tricky crosscurrents that she has had to weather — and that are likely to intensify as she tries to square that circle.
In a dozen years as the top law enforcement official of the city and then the state, Ms. Harris was as much politician as prosecutor, appearing to try to be all things to all constituencies. More practical than ideological, she was defined most by resisting easy definition.
She impressed Californians with her commanding presence — offering a preview of the senator the country would see pointedly questioning Republican nominees during confirmation hearings. But she developed a reputation for caution, protecting the status quo and shrinking from decisions on contentious issues.
Years before ending mass incarceration became a bipartisan cause, she started programs to steer low-level drug offenders away from prison and into school and jobs. At the same time, she touted her success in increasing conviction rates, and as attorney general remained largely on the sidelines as California scrambled to meet a federal court order to reduce its swollen prison populations. She also repeatedly sided with prosecutors accused of misconduct, challenging judges who ruled against them.
And while she summoned righteous anger toward the bank fraud that helped set off the Great Recession, holding out for more money for California homeowners in the National Mortgage Settlement, she said little when the governor diverted some of it to fill holes in his budget.
“She played it very careful,” said Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles who served on an independent panel that investigated one of the cases of prosecutorial misconduct while Ms. Harris was attorney general. “She had her sights set on what her future might be, and she realized every day she was navigating a minefield, because she had law enforcement to deal with, she had the public to deal with, the minority community to deal with. I think she was trying to be very careful not to alienate.”
She has also had to navigate the shifting politics of crime and race — and the expectations they bring with them.
Ms. Harris began her career at a time when many African-American law enforcement officials were joining, even amplifying, law-and-order calls for stricter prosecution, to stop the drugs and violence victimizing their communities. When she became attorney general in 2011, crime was falling and the debate was evolving. Now, in the era of Black Lives Matter, many in the black community argue that the biggest law-enforcement problem is law enforcement itself, and her record is being assessed against calls for a wholesale reimagination of the criminal justice system — who should go to prison and for how long; indeed, should any but the most heinous criminals go to prison at all?
At the other end of the political spectrum, President Trump has sought to frame the immigration debate around fear of rising crime, teeing it up as a campaign issue for 2020. In the waning days of the partial government shutdown over his demand for a border wall, he tweeted what he called a new Republican theme for the next two years: “BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!”
Ms. Harris scorns what she calls false choices, and says her critics are imposing them on her record. Those who have worked for her call her disciplined, a characterization she prefers to “cautious.” She describes her thinking — about criminal justice, but also about the other issues animating her presidential candidacy, like health care and economic inequality — as scientific. “It’s a hypothesis; this is how we can do things better,” she said in a recent interview. “You have to inform it with: Where’s the empirical evidence? Where is the data? Where is the detail?”
She does not like to be boxed in.
“The thing that drives Kamala Harris crazy above all other things is to get reduced to a demographic archetype,” said Sean Clegg, a longtime strategist for Ms. Harris and other California Democrats. “‘You are XYZ because you are a black woman; you are XYZ because you’re from San Francisco.’ She’s a complex person like all of us. She’s also been the first. That’s a lot more difficult than it looks.”
Ms. Harris, now 54, confounded expectations just by becoming a prosecutor.
She is the daughter of immigrants — her mother from India, her father from Jamaica — who met as civil-rights activists in graduate school at Berkeley and gave Ms. Harris what she calls a stroller’s-eye view of the demonstrations of the 1960s.
Most of her law school peers went into civil-rights work, recalled Jeff Adachi, who was a tutor in Ms. Harris’s program at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law and later faced off against her as San Francisco’s elected public defender.
“You didn’t have a lot of minorities who were wanting to be part of law enforcement,” he said.
She had to explain to family and friends before taking her first job out of law school, as a prosecutor in Oakland in 1990. As she described it in the recent interview, “When we want to reform systems, it shouldn’t and it can’t only be from the outside on bended knee or trying to break down the door.”
She added, “Let’s try and do it from the inside and understand that those people are going to stand in a courtroom and ask for guilty verdicts for people who do harm to the community — and that’s consistent with all progressive values.”
She earned a reputation as a sharp trial lawyer, and in 1998 became the managing attorney in charge of the career criminal unit in the San Francisco district attorney’s office. But she left within two years, frustrated by what she saw as the dysfunction of that office, which had the state’s lowest conviction rate and lacked basics like email and enough phones.
She worked for the city attorney, and she prepared to run against her former boss, Terence Hallinan, in 2003.
Ms. Harris had made political and social connections, dating Willie Brown, the powerful speaker of the California House, and serving on the board of the city’s Museum of Modern Art. But her polls showed she was a relative unknown.
Mr. Hallinan, a former defense lawyer and a son of a Progressive Party presidential candidate, had infuriated the police department by winning indictments of top brass in a scandal involving the assistant chief’s son. Ms. Harris campaigned between Mr. Hallinan and a more law-and-order candidate, on a platform that ran the gamut: professionalizing the office and improving relations with the police, opposing the death penalty and creating programs to steer first-time nonviolent offenders away from crime.
She brought a rare perspective — elected district attorneys are more typically white men; a 2015 study by the Women Donors Network found that just 1 percent are women of color. Communities of color, she argued, wanted tougher treatment for the drug dealers victimizing them; what they didn’t want from the police was excessive force.
Almost immediately, her decision on the death penalty in the officer’s killing inflamed tensions with the police. But it was pragmatic as well as principled: She knew that San Francisco jurors rarely if ever returned death sentences. And despite the protests, polling showed that the public supported her.
Some contend that the episode spooked her, that she spent the rest of her tenure trying to make amends with the police. Ms. Harris scoffs at the idea, pointing to her diversion program that allowed young low-level offenders to avoid incarceration if they enrolled in school full time and kept a job. “You think law enforcement was supportive of that?” she said.
That  program was relatively small, with only about 300 graduates over eight years. Mr. Adachi and others complained that it took only the offenders most likely to succeed. But its recidivism rate was remarkably low: less than 10 percent, compared with 53 percent statewide.
Arguing that students who skip school are the ones who end up in the criminal justice system, Ms. Harris also started an anti-truancy program. She described it as carrot-and-stick: It threatened prosecution for parents whose children were chronically absent, but also helped them with health care problems and other hurdles to getting their children to school.
Critics, though, said it was more stick than carrot, and failed to grapple with the depths of the social problems parents were struggling against.
Either way, the program reflected Ms. Harris’s approach to her job.
“Fierce,” said Lateefah Simon, a onetime teenage shoplifter who became executive director of a center that helps lift young women out of lives of crime. Ms. Harris recruited her to work in the district attorney’s office, instructed her to lose the Pumas and track pants, bought her a suit and told her she needed to understand the penal code. Ms. Harris herself kept an immaculate desk, with little more than a notepad and a keyboard at her fingertips.
Ms. Simon called Ms. Harris “the 1999 version of Olivia Pope,” the impeccably tailored, steely-in-a-crisis hero of television’s “Scandal.”
“She’s not easy,” Ms. Simon said. “If you beat up a woman in front of her children, you are going to jail. At the heart, she is a prosecutor. She wants to hold people accountable.”
Suzy Loftus, who started working for Ms. Harris as a campaign volunteer in 2003 and is now running for district attorney, recalls Ms. Harris’s instruction as she swore her in as a prosecutor: “When you go into court tomorrow,” she told her, “you look the judge in the eye and say, ‘Suzy Loftus, for the people.’” (“For the people” is now the slogan for Ms. Harris’s presidential campaign.)
“It’s professional and it’s about dignity,” Ms. Loftus said. “But it’s also about giving dignity to people who are most impacted by the system.”
But it was Ms. Harris’s success in increasing conviction rates that became a central boast of her campaign for attorney general in 2010.
An article in San Francisco Weekly that year challenged the numbers, noting that most of the convictions had come from plea deals, and that the conviction rate for cases that went to trial was lower than Mr. Hallinan’s, and had dropped over the previous two years. Assistant prosecutors were quoted saying that Ms. Harris had pressured them to take weak cases to trial in an attempt to look tough on crime as she prepared to run beyond the liberal city.
Her office defended her by noting that she had won stiffer sentences than her predecessors, by demanding prison time instead of probation for crimes including robbery and home burglary.
Ms. Simon, who was awarded a MacArthur “genius” grant in 2003 for her leadership on juvenile justice and now leads the Akonadi Foundation, a racial justice organization in Oakland, says she fights with her “radical friends” who think Ms. Harris was not progressive enough on crime. “I say, I’d love to see you run for D.A. and run a better office.”
Ms. Harris, she said, had to contend with expectations from all sides.
“She instinctually but also strategically had to think about the way people saw her,” Ms. Simon said. “The expectations not just of a black woman elected, but with black folks, they expected so much of her to go and revolutionize the system in four to eight years, which is impossible.”
Ms. Harris ran unopposed in 2007 for her second term — the only San Francisco district attorney to have done so in nearly two decades. And she became increasingly well known nationally, publishing her first book, “Smart on Crime: A Career Prosecutor’s Plan to Make Us Safer,” as she prepared to run for attorney general in 2010.
She took office at the ideal moment for a prosecutor who wanted to rethink the criminal justice system.
A panel of federal judges had ruled that overcrowding in California prisons amounted to cruel and unusual punishment — prisoners were stacked in triple bunk beds in gymnasiums and dying for lack of medical care — and ordered the state to reduce the population by about 40,000.
The debate over prison crowding had been long-running and contentious, with victims’ rights groups and law enforcement officials opposing the idea of prisoner release. Ms. Harris stayed above the fray, as she would on a range of issues throughout her tenure, seeing herself less as a decision maker than as a lawyer serving a client.
She had campaigned to the right of her Republican opponent on the question of easing the state’s tough three-strikes law. Once in office, she declined to take positions on ultimately successful ballot initiatives intended to reduce prison populations — one expanding opportunities for parole, the other reducing many nonviolent felonies to misdemeanors.
She argued that because she was tasked with writing the descriptions of the initiatives that would appear on the ballot any public statements on the proposals might create the impression that she had a finger on the scale. This departed, though, from the practice of previous attorneys general.
After the Supreme Court upheld the judges’ overcrowding order, the state promised to “promptly” release a significant number of nonviolent prisoners, giving credit for time served. A delay in meeting that promise drew a judicial scolding in 2014. The state’s response proved embarrassing, and unsuccessful: Reducing the prison population, Ms. Harris’s office maintained, would hurt California’s ability to fight wildfires by shrinking the pool of forced labor.
“She really was a sideline player in all the decarceration efforts,” said Robert Weisberg, a law professor and co-director of the criminal law center at Stanford. “She didn’t stake out a strong position on what to do other than, ‘Let’s promote re-entry and anti-recidivism programs.’”
The California attorney general’s office is large, about 5,000 lawyers, and Ms. Harris said she was unaware of the brief arguing for cheap prison labor. “A previous A.G. said to me, ‘You are going to inherit an office of 5,000 mistakes waiting for you every day,’” she said in the interview. “I have always owned that responsibility.”
That was also her response to criticism that she had resisted appeals for DNA testing from Kevin Cooper, a death row inmate whose case had been taken up by groups including the American Bar Association and the American Civil Liberties Union. Ms. Harris said she learned of the case in a New York Times column last year — after which she urged testing.
Beginning in the summer of 2014, the nation — and with it, California’s attorney general — was thrust into a debate over police brutality, by the deaths of black men in confrontations with the police in Ferguson, Mo.; Baltimore; and other cities.
Ms. Harris won praise for releasing statewide data in a way that informed rather than inflamed the brutality debate: It included numbers on the use of police force but also on use of force against officers. She instituted body cameras for police agents who worked in her office, and offered implicit-bias training for police statewide.
But she declined to support statewide regulations for the use of body cameras, agreeing with local departments that they should set their own standards. And she did not support a bill that would have required the attorney general to investigate police shootings.
Her office was also forced to confront an uproar over prosecutorial misconduct, with judges disciplining local prosecutors for lying and tampering with evidence. It was an issue she had faced as district attorney in a scandal involving drug testing at the San Francisco Police Department crime lab.
A technician had been skimming drugs to feed her own habit, and Ms. Harris’s chief drug prosecutor had warned that she was sabotaging evidence. Ms. Harris said she only learned of the problem several months later, when it was revealed publicly.
A judge then ruled that the district attorney’s office had violated constitutional protections requiring prosecutors to turn over any information that might damage witnesses’ credibility, and criticized the office for failing to tell defense lawyers about crimes or misconduct on at least 60 police officers’ records.
Ms. Harris responded by accusing the judge of a conflict of interest because she was married to a defense attorney who had handled a case involving the lab. (A court rejected her motion.)
As attorney general, Ms. Harris defended prosecutors by appealing judges’ rulings — dropping one appeal, during her Senate campaign, only after a video of judges criticizing her office went viral.
In a case in Orange County, a public defender had discovered that the district attorney’s office was strategically placing jailhouse informants, offering them leniency if they could coax confessions from fellow inmates. A judge found that the district attorney’s office had lied to him about the use of informants and withheld potentially favorable evidence from defense lawyers.
When the judge disqualified the entire office from a death penalty case, Ms. Harris appealed, accusing the judge of abusing his discretion. While she opened an inquiry into the case at hand, she rejected repeated calls for a broad investigation of the prosecutor’s office.
In the recent interview, Ms. Harris said her decision reflected her experience when others had tried to disqualify her from the San Francisco death penalty case. It was up to voters, not the attorney general, she said, to remove elected prosecutors. “I knew misconduct had occurred, clearly it had,” she said. “And it was being handled at the local level.”
Frustrated by her refusal to investigate, Erwin Chemerinsky, then the law school dean at the University of California, Irvine, joined with a former attorney general to ask the Justice Department to examine what they believed was a pattern of civil rights violations in the prosecutor’s office. Their letter was signed by 25 prominent law professors, prosecutors and defense lawyers.
“Twice Kamala Harris called on my cell and said she was on top of it and looking into it,” he said. “To my knowledge, the California A.G. never did anything with regard to the scandal.”
Professor Chemerinsky emphasized that he admired Ms. Harris’s work as a senator. But, he said, her office’s decisions on Orange County were “outrageous.”
“Their reaction ranged from silence to criticizing the judge who found the misconduct,” he said. “Never did they attempt to be a force for reform.”
In September 2011, Ms. Harris announced that she would not sign the National Mortgage Settlement, negotiated by the Obama administration with the banks at the center of the foreclosure crisis. What happened next, Ms. Harris and her supporters say, illustrates her agility in balancing competing interests.
The proposed settlement essentially gave the banks amnesty against further prosecution. Ms. Harris wanted to leave open the possibility of investigation and lawsuits, and promised Californians to lock up the bankers responsible for the fraud.
As the top prosecutor for the state with the bulk of foreclosures, she had the power to determine the fate of the deal. The lobbying was intense — from housing groups, from homeowners, from the Obama administration. “It was a constant tension between speeding the relief quickly in the middle of the crisis or taking the time to go through this investigation, which could take years, while people were losing their homes every day,” said Brian Nelson, a deputy who helped Ms. Harris negotiate the deal.
She did not kill the settlement. She emerged with a better one: The banks agreed to $18 billion in debt reduction that Ms. Harris said would allow California homeowners to stay in their homes, and the national agreement included $2.5 billion for a fund to provide educational counseling and other services for those in danger of foreclosure.
But critics, especially on the left, have long said that the settlement was no grand bargain. It did not require banks to pay much out of pocket; $4.7 billion of the $18 billion in relief came from forgiving second mortgages, many of which the banks would have written off anyway because they were so severely underwater, and $9 billion came from homeowners selling their homes for less than the value of their mortgages, meaning that homeowners did not stay in their homes.
Ms. Harris retained the right to investigate and pursue claims against the banks, winning $921 million against five institutions. But no one went to prison; she explained to voters that she was frustrated, too, but the state could go only “where the evidence took us.”
And most of the $410 million California got to help at-risk homeowners never made it to them; a judge found that Governor Brown diverted $331 million to plug budget holes. Ms. Harris recused herself from defending the governor because of her role in the settlement. She rebuffed housing advocates’ requests to meet with her, offering little more than a brief statement that the money should go to homeowners.
Her decision to fight the ruling that had struck down California’s capital punishment law in 2015 created similar disappointment among those who had applauded her refusal to call for the death penalty in San Francisco.
“This was not a situation where they were compelled to respond,” said Hadar Aviram, a law professor at Hastings who started a petition against appealing. “They could have done nothing.”
The public, however, had three years earlier rejected a ballot initiative that would have abolished the death penalty in California.
In the interview, Ms. Harris said that as attorney general she had had to represent her client, the governor, who supported the death penalty appeal. Even so, she had cited her discretion in deciding which cases to pursue when she declined requests to defend Proposition 8, a successful ballot initiative defining marriage as between a man and a woman, in federal courts.
Once again, she said, her critics were framing a false choice: She could defend the death penalty for a client and still be opposed to it personally.
Just as a prosecutor can be tough but also progressive.
“One human being kills another human being, a woman is raped, a child is molested — are we really saying there should be no consequence and accountability?” she said. “I believe it is consistent with knowing that there is bias in the system, knowing that there are deep flaws in the system, knowing that there has to be reform of the system.”
She added: “Are we really saying that you’re either that, or you believe that there should be serious consequences for people who commit serious crimes? I am both.”
SEOUL, South Korea — A former senior South Korean prosecutor was sentenced to two years in prison on Wednesday on charges of banishing a junior prosecutor to an obscure posting after she tried to expose his sexual misconduct.
The case of the former senior prosecutor, Ahn Tae-geun, drew particular attention in South Korea because the accusations of the junior prosecutor, Seo Ji-hyeon, helped fuel a nascent #MeToo movement in this deeply male-dominated society.
Ms. Seo recounted during an interview with a cable channel in January 2018 how she had been sexually molested by Mr. Ahn. Her decision to make public her accusations was an all but unprecedented move in South Korea, where victims of sexual violence have been afraid to speak out for fear of shame and retaliation.
Ms. Seo’s action helped encourage a steady stream of women to come forward with accusations of sexual abuse against an array of prominent men, including theater directors, politicians, professors, Roman Catholic priests and a former national speedskating team coach. Many of the accused men have since apologized for sexual misconduct and resigned from their positions, several of them facing criminal charges.
Lee Sang-ju, a presiding judge at the Seoul Central District Court, said in his verdict on Wednesday against Mr. Ahn that the former prosecutor had “used his influence to cover up his corrupt conduct and discriminated against the victim in job assignments rather than protecting her.”
“He inflicted a psychological damage to his victim that is hard to heal,” the judge added.
Mr. Ahn, who has denied the charges against him, said he would appeal the ruling.
Once a rising star among elite prosecutors, Mr. Ahn was formally arrested shortly after the ruling on Wednesday and was taken to prison.
His case became a tipping point in South Korea’s slowly developing #MeToo movement after Ms. Seo revealed in online postings and media interviews last year that he had groped her at a funeral in 2010. Mr. Ahn has said he had no recollection of the alleged episode because he was drunk at the time.
Writing in an internal web log for prosecutors, Ms. Seo said she had been so deeply traumatized by the abuse that she had a miscarriage. But she said that when she lodged a formal complaint and an internal audit began, Mr. Ahn used his influence to have her assigned to an obscure posting in a small provincial city.
Mr. Ahn had headed an office at the Justice Ministry that supervised job postings of prosecutors before he was forced to resign in 2017 in a corruption scandal.
Ms. Seo said she had remained silent for years before finally gathering enough courage to speak out. When she did, she received a wave of public support, forcing the Justice Ministry to open an investigation.
The ruling on Wednesday was a victory for #MeToo campaigners in South Korea.
Their campaign was dealt a significant setback last April when a court acquitted Ahn Hee-jung, a prominent former provincial governor and presidential hopeful, of repeatedly raping a female aide. The court cited a lack of evidence that Mr. Ahn had coerced his accuser into a sexual relationship.
VATICAN CITY — In the decades since the crisis of clerical sexual abuse of children first exploded, the Roman Catholic church has struggled to resolve a scourge that has eroded its credibility, driven away the faithful and stained its priests, bishops, cardinals and popes.
On Monday, as the Vatican prepared for a meeting that will include Pope Francis and the presidents of the world’s bishops conferences, the church was still looking for a way forward.
“My hope is that people see this as a turning point,” Cardinal Blase Cupich, the archbishop of Chicago, said at a Vatican news conference. He said he hoped the meeting, titled “The Protection of Minors in the Church,” would be a “rallying moment” to make sure all the bishops were on the same page.
The four-day meeting, which begins on Thursday, will bring together 190 participants, including 114 presidents of bishops’ conferences or their delegates, representatives from 14 Eastern churches in communion with Rome, female and male leaders of religious orders and the chiefs of several Vatican congregations.
Victims of sexual abuse will speak of their experiences during evening prayers but will not otherwise address the meeting. About a dozen survivors will meet with the organizers on Wednesday, abuse survivors said.
At the news conference, the prelates tasked by the pope with organizing the meeting spoke of the need to hold bishops accountable for addressing the problem, and stated that homosexuality was not a cause of the abuse of minors by priests.
They also stressed another theme of the conference, the need for greater transparency. In an effort to soften its reputation as secretive and hostile to the press, the Vatican’s website for the closed-door event will live-stream parts of the meeting and report on the content of others.
Archbishop Charles Scicluna of Malta, the Vatican’s chief sex crimes investigator, thanked the media for its investigative stories that have “bought this topic to where it should belong.”
Asked at the news conference about the culture of secrecy that has allowed known molesters to remain in the church for decades without their parishioners’ knowledge, he said that “silence is a no-go,” whether that means “criminal or malicious complicity and a code of a silence or whether it’s denial.”
“Confronting the facts will make us free,” he said.
But many times over the years, the church has fallen short of promises of toughness, openness and accountability on the issue of sexual abuse, and survivors have tempered their expectations.
On Monday, a Vatican spokesman declined to answer when asked if Msgr. Joseph Punderson remained in his post at the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura, where he has worked since 1993. The diocese of New Jersey listed him this month among those “credibly accused of the sexual abuse of a minor” and removed him from ministry.
“We are not here, now, discussing a single case,” said the Vatican spokesman, Alessandro Gisotti.
Archbishop Scicluna interjected: “The question is a legitimate question and people need to know that what Rome asks of the local churches it also ready to apply at home.”
Pressed again by reporters, Mr. Gisotti said of Monsignor Punderson, “He is not at the Tribunal of the Signatura at this moment,” though he did not clarify if that meant he had been removed from his post.
Anne Barrett Doyle, a co-director of BishopAccountability.org, one of the groups that have already begun protesting in St. Peter’s Square, said failure to answer the question clearly was a “cop-out.”
Cardinal Cupich, a progressive and favorite of Pope Francis, said that by calling the meeting, the pope wanted to send a message to all bishops that the issue was an urgent priority, and that “each one of them has to claim responsibility and ownership of this problem.” He said that the meeting would compel bishops to identify and close any “loopholes” with concrete steps.
Pope Francis himself has been late to the issue. After first encouraging advocates for victims of abuse with tough talk at the beginning of his pontificate, he was slow to act. In a trip to Chile last year, he dismissed the accusations of some abuse survivors as slander, but later apologized and said that an investigation led by Archbishop Scicluna had opened his eyes to “grave errors” by the church.
On Saturday, Francis defrocked Theodore E. McCarrick, a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington, D.C., after a church finding that he had sexually abused minors and adult seminarians.
It is believed to be the first time a cardinal has ever been expelled from the priesthood for such offenses.
Asked on Monday if he believed that the pope had evolved in his approach to the issue, Archbishop Scicluna said, “I would concentrate on where he is now.” He did not specifically cite Mr. McCarrick, but he argued that the pope’s most recent actions and language showed he did not “hide away from confronting reality” and that the mere fact that he called the meeting spoke volumes.
“He is ready to say `I got that wrong, we’re not going to do it again or we are going to do it right,’ ” he said. “I think that gives us great hope.”
He said the pope had asked the meeting’s organizers to stay on in Rome after its conclusion to start the process of following through and auditing the world’s bishops.
Many conservatives in the church have blamed homosexuality for the clerical sex abuse of minors, a critique most notably aired by Carlo Maria Viganò, the former papal ambassador to the United Nations, who last year accused the pope of covering up abuse.
It has been a difficult issue for Pope Francis, who has counseled tolerance of gays. He heads a priesthood with a high proportion of gay men who, whether or not they obey the command to be celibate, dare not speak openly about their orientation.
In response to a question, Cardinal Cupich acknowledged that the crisis primarily involves “male on male sex abuse,” but he added that studies had for years demonstrated “that homosexuality in itself is not a cause” of abuse, and that it was a matter of opportunity and poor training.
Pope Francis has blamed the abuse of power by clerics, which he calls clericalism, as the root problem.
The prelates said they were focusing solely on sex abuse of minors to avoid distraction by adding too many subjects.
By protecting minors, they said, they would be in a better position to safeguard vulnerable adults, including nuns who have been abused by priests.
The meeting will include three presentations by women, and discussions within 11 working groups divided according to language.
The Vatican had urged the participants to fill out questionnaires and Pope Francis required the invited bishops to meet with survivors on their home turf before coming to Rome.
“Listening to the victims is an important starting point,” the Reverend Federico Lombardi, the moderator for the meeting and the former Vatican spokesman, said on Monday.
Only by speaking with victims one-to-one within their own cultural context, he said, could bishops fully grasp that “the problem exists, it is diffuse, and runs deeply.”
On a recent afternoon, an audience composed mostly of survivors of sexual abuse sat in the Times Center auditorium in Manhattan for a preview screening of Dan Reed’s “Leaving Neverland,” to be followed by a Q. and A. led by Oprah Winfrey. The documentary, which aired on HBO in two parts on Sunday and Monday, profiles Wade Robson and James Safechuck, two men who say Michael Jackson sexually abused them when they were children.
The final hour of the film pivots from the graphic, triggering details of molestation that Robson and Safechuck say occurred for several years to the emotional fallout in their adulthood. At the screening, audience members could be heard sniffling, sighing and crying during moments when Robson and Safechuck spoke of their struggles to come forward to their families.
[Michael Jackson’s tenacious fans. | “Leaving Neverland” Part 2 recap.]
There were also emphatic cheers and bursts of applause on several occasions, as when Safechuck’s mother, Stephanie, recalls dancing on the day Jackson died and exclaiming, “Oh, thank God he can’t hurt any more children.”
Then, at the conclusion of the viewing, came nearly 90 minutes of processing with Winfrey. The lights came up, the cameras turned on and Winfrey, Safechuck, Robson and Reed ascended the stage to record “Oprah Winfrey Presents: After Neverland.”
The hourlong special, which aired Monday evening on both HBO and OWN immediately following the conclusion of “Leaving Neverland,” was a return to the audience-involved, talk-show therapy format that she perfected over 25 seasons of “The Oprah Winfrey Show.” Winfrey solicited responses from some of the abuse survivors seated before her, and called upon Howard R. Fradkin, a psychological trauma consultant specializing in male sexual abuse, to speak about patterns of grooming and manipulation.
But at the center of those teaching moments were Robson and Safechuck. At first, Winfrey asked them to elaborate on how they came to recognize themselves as victims and seek help, and invited them to unpack the ways in which they say Jackson compelled them into years of silence.
Talk eventually turned to suspicions of their motives, and the assertions by superfans and the Jackson family that Robson and Safechuck are only coming forward for financial gain. Reed emphatically denied that either of the men or their families received compensation for the film.
Robson said that a lawsuit he filed against the Jackson estate in 2013 was about doing “something good with this bad,” not about remuneration. He saw the legal system as a “platform” to tell his story in a scenario where the estate would “have to listen” and “have to sit there.”
“Michael trained me and forced me to tell the lie for so many years, and particularly on the stand,” he continued. “And those were really traumatizing experiences for me that had a huge impact on the rest of my life. So the feeling was, I want an opportunity to reprocess that experience. I want to get on the stand again, because now I’m able to tell the truth.”
(Robson’s suit was thrown out by a judge because too much time had passed. Safechuck sued the following year and was also unsuccessful. Both cases are under appeal.)
The Jackson family has denied all of the allegations and publicly condemned the film, and the estate is suing HBO for $100 million. Winfrey seemed fully aware of the optics of her interview: “All the anger — you guys are going to get it. You know that, right?”
She continued, “You’re going to get it. I’m going to get it. We’re all going to get it.”
At various points during the taping, Winfrey mentioned, in passing, her own experience as a survivor of child abuse. Curiously, there was no mention of her personal connection to Jackson — in particular, the famous 1993 live interview with him at Neverland Ranch, which took place just months before the first public accusations against him were made.
In that interview, she was an unabashed fan (“I think ‘King of Pop’ is actually too limiting,” she told him, referring to his moniker), but based on her conversation with Reed, Robson and Safechuck, it’s clear her perception of Jackson has shifted. Winfrey explained at the beginning of the taping that she reached out to Reed after watching the documentary, and told him that he had done “in four hours what I tried to do in 217 episodes” dedicated to educating her audience about sexual abuse.
As the conversation wound down, the subject turned to absolution. When the accusers were asked if they had forgiven Jackson, Safechuck admitted that he felt guilt just the weekend before for speaking out. “Like I let him down,” he said. “Like — it’s still there. The shadow’s still there.”
Winfrey concluded the show with words of inspiration for survivors and the importance of education around abuse, and the audience in the theater gave a standing ovation that emanated a collective catharsis. Robson had one last thing to say, however — a direct address to the audience in the theater.
“As so many of you know, being a survivor is so isolating,” he said. “At least it is for a really long time. So to be in this space with you guys, the brothers and sisters in trauma and in triumph — that we’re standing, you know, and we’re here, I’m just so grateful.”
In Part 1 of “Leaving Neverland,” two men, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, describe in disturbing detail how they were drawn into Michael Jackson’s orbit when they were boys, and then how he repeatedly used them for sex.
In the second half, which aired on HBO Monday night, the boys have grown older and Jackson moves on from them. But their ordeals are not over.
Robson and Safechuck describe how their experiences with Jackson left them in tatters, even years later. We meet Robson’s wife, Amanda, and Safechuck’s wife, Laura. We hear that both men became fathers. Safechuck talks about the self-hatred he feels, and his wife recounts his battle with depression. Robson, too, says he became deeply depressed and almost fully retreated from the world.
“They say time heals all wounds,” Safechuck said. “But I don’t think time heals this one. It just gets worse.”
[Read a recap of Part 1/Our critic Wesley Morris reviews the documentary.]
Jackson’s family and estate have denied all the allegations against him. “The facts don’t lie, people do,” the family said in a statement. “Michael Jackson was and always will be 100 percent innocent of these false allegations.”
Many Jackson fans have risen to his defense on Twitter, often noting how both men previously testified that the singer had never abused them, a point the men address in Part 2.
Here are some other key takeaways from the second half of the documentary:
In 1993, Jackson was investigated after a 13-year-old boy accused him of abuse, and both Safechuck and Robson spoke up for Jackson. They told their families that Jackson had never touched them and said the same to law enforcement officials.
“As soon as the cop started asking me these questions, the first thing that came to mind for me was everything that Michael started saying to me when I was 7,” said Robson, who was 11 at the time. “If anyone ever found out that we were doing any of these sort of things, these sexual things, that he and I would go to jail for the rest of our lives. It was terrifying.”
After having been being fairly absent from the boys’ lives for some time, Jackson was back in regular touch, they said, because he needed them. Safechuck said he rehearsed a law-enforcement interview with Jackson’s lawyers. Whatever the police said, he was instructed to say “no”; if he gave them nothing, they would have nothing.
Jackson reached a $23 million settlement in 1994 with the family of his accuser, who then declined to testify. No charges were filed at the time. Joy Robson, Wade’s mother, said she took that as a sign that there had been no truth to the accusations, that the boy’s family had just been out for money.
A couple of years later, Robson said, Jackson summoned him one day, and then had sex with him. The next day, he said, Jackson told Robson to get rid of his underwear because it might contain evidence.
In 2003, Jackson was investigated again. But this time, child molestation charges were filed and he was brought to trial.
Jackson asked Safechuck to testify on his behalf. “I was kind of breaking, like having a nervous breakdown,” Safechuck said. “And I didn’t want to be involved.”
He told Jackson no. He said that Jackson responded by threatening him, saying he had the best lawyers in the world, but Safechuck said he stood firm. Jackson asked again toward the end of the trial, but Safechuck still refused. He said that was the last time he and Jackson spoke.
[Michael Jackson’s fans are tenacious/“Leaving Neverland” could imperil the fortunes of the Jackson estate]
Robson said he was reluctant at first, but he did testify. At that point in his life, he was a successful choreographer in his early 20s working with some of the biggest acts in the world, like ’N Sync and Britney Spears. He said that he wishes now he had been at a place where he could have told the truth.
“The idea of this truth coming out and Amanda knowing about it,” Robson said of the woman he would eventually marry, “and my family knowing about it, and everybody in the entertainment business, in my career knowing about it, I mean, was just a ridiculous idea that was never going to happen in my mind. Because in my mind, my whole life would be over.”
Jackson was found not guilty of all the charges against him.
Four years later, he died at the age of 50 from a mix of powerful drugs he had been administered for sleep deprivation. (His doctor, Conrad Murray, was convicted of involuntary manslaughter.)
When Safechuck decided not to testify, he asked his parents not to do so either. He told his mother that Jackson “wasn’t a good person,” he said, and that he didn’t want them involved. His mother, Stephanie, understood what he meant.
“I danced when I heard that he died,” Stephanie Safechuck said of Jackson. “‘Oh thank God, he can’t hurt any more children!’ Those were my thoughts. And I danced.”
Before Robson could tell his family about the abuse, he fought through a severe depression. It struck not long after his son was born, at a moment when he had reached a new level of professional success, having been hired to direct a big budget feature film. He withdrew from his work. Finally, he decided to see a therapist and realized that if he was going to understand why he was struggling, he would have to talk about the abuse.
The day he told his therapist, he also told his family, almost by accident. His brother, Shane, was visiting and told Wade that his wife had just had a dream in which Wade told her that Jackson had abused him. Wade said that he considered responding with his standard joke. (“I don’t know why I wasn’t sexy enough,” he’d say.) Instead, he told his brother that it was true. He also told his wife and sister.
Wade described his wife caving in, like someone had punched her in the chest. For five months, his wife would not allow Joy Robson, Wade’s mother, into their home. In Part 1, Joy had described how she allowed her son to become part of Jackson’s life, unaware of what was going on in his bedroom.
“The abuse was a bomb that dropped in our life and exploded,” Amanda Robson said, “and ripped apart everything that we found sound and secure and safe.”
The documentary suggests that there are others with stories like Robson’s and Safechuck’s, though it offers no testimony to support the idea. The first episode ended with a disclaimer that said the actor Macaulay Culkin, who also spent time at Jackson’s Neverland Ranch in California, and another boy mentioned in the documentary, “categorically deny any sexual contact” with Jackson.
For years, Safechuck and Robson, too, denied that Jackson had abused them. A central question the documentary tries to tackle is why viewers should believe them now.
Both men describe the terror they felt at the idea of telling their wives and families, much less the entire world, their secret and how many years it took them to consider opening up. Robson says that as uncomfortable as it was to describe what happened between him and Jackson, it still felt better to tell the truth, and he hoped that by going public, he might help other survivors of sexual abuse. Both men sued Jackson’s estate after his death, but the cases were dismissed because they were filed outside the statute of limitations.
“I want to be able to speak the truth,” Robson said, “as loud as I had to speak the lie for so long.”
The president of FamilyTreeDNA, one of the country’s largest at-home genetic testing companies, has apologized to its users for failing to disclose that it was sharing DNA data with federal investigators working to solve violent crimes.
In the booming business of consumer DNA testing and genealogy, FamilyTreeDNA had marketed itself as a leader of consumer privacy and a fierce protector of user data, refusing, unlike some of its competitors, to sell information to third parties.
But unbeknown to its users, the Houston-based firm quietly and voluntarily agreed in 2018 to open its database of more than two million records to the F.B.I. and examine DNA samples in its laboratory to identify suspects and victims of unsolved rapes and murders.
FamilyTreeDNA confirmed the deal on Thursday, in a report by Buzzfeed News, setting off a backlash among its loyal users who felt betrayed and igniting another debate over privacy and ethical issues with investigators using genealogical sites to solve crimes.
In an email to its users on Sunday, the company’s president, Bennett Greenspan, defended the agreement with the F.B.I. but apologized for not revealing it sooner.
“I am genuinely sorry for not having handled our communications with you as we should have,” Mr. Greenspan wrote, according to a copy of the email obtained by The New York Times. “We’ve received an incredible amount of support from those of you who believe this is an opportunity for honest, law-abiding citizens to help catch bad guys and bring closure to devastated families.”
The news underscored the lack of universal regulations governing direct-to-consumer genetic testing in the United States and how companies can use their data without consumers’ knowledge.
“It’s a good example of, are you willing to stay abreast of every terms of service change with FamilyTreeDNA, or are you doing it once because it was a holiday present?” Erin E. Murphy, a professor at New York University School of Law who wrote the book “Inside the Cell: The Dark Side of Forensic D.N.A.,” said in an interview.
“Even if you were reading all of your spam email about all the privacy changes, did you get one that says you have agreed to be the F.B.I.’s testing lab? No, they did not issue that,” Ms. Murphy said.
Alan Butler, the senior counsel at the Electronic Privacy Information Center, described the situation as “‘bait and switch’ behavior that consumer protection laws are meant to prohibit.”
“The company needs to either roll back the change or else delete all stored DNA data it has collected from individuals under the previous agreement,” Mr. Butler said.
Consumer DNA tests have skyrocketed in popularity in recent years, with major sites like Ancestry.com and 23andMe offering personalized ancestry reports and tools to find possible relatives. They have also become useful tools for law enforcement agencies, helping detectives solve high-profile cases such as the Golden State Killer last year.
While investigators have used open-source sites such as GEDmatch, which is free, to find DNA matches and possible relatives, the arrangement with FamilyTreeDNA includes the first known commercial site to provide some services without a subpoena or warrant.
According to FamilyTreeDNA, the F.B.I. will have access to its website like any other user: After uploading a person’s DNA file, investigators can search for potential relatives with overlapping DNA. Detectives will have access to the same repository of genealogical records as all users, the company said.
In addition, the company’s genetic testing laboratory, Gene by Gene, has agreed to create data profiles from DNA samples provided by the F.B.I., which can then be plugged into other family history sites. The company said on its website that the F.B.I. would need a subpoena to gain access to information not already available on its website.
The company has not disclosed how many cases it has worked on, but Mr. Greenspan said in the email to users that it was “a handful of DNA samples for cold cases from the F.B.I.” .
Mr. Greenspan defended the deal by saying his company was forcing law enforcement agencies to be transparent, unlike other DNA testing companies.
“Law enforcement has the ability to test DNA samples from crime scenes and upload the results into databases, like any other customer can, and it appears they have been doing it at other companies for the past year,” he said. “The distinction is that, according to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, we expect the FBI and law enforcement agencies to let us know when they submit something to our database.”
A company spokesman said late Monday that the F.B.I. is only able to see other DNA profiles on FamilyTreeDNA that share some of the same genetic profile. Users can disable the “matching” option in their account settings, which would prevent the F.B.I., as well as ordinary users, from seeing their information, the spokesman said.
“Unless a valid court order is issued, such as a subpoena or search warrant, with which FamilyTreeDNA would have no choice but to comply, there is no difference in the level of database access provided to law enforcement than to an ordinary user of FamilyTreeDNA,” the spokesman, Patrick W. Murphy, said in an email.
The F.B.I. declined to comment.
After Buzzfeed reported on the arrangement, genealogists revolted. Some discussed creating a petition to encourage FamilyTreeDNA to reverse its decision, while others threatened to delete their profiles.
“Not being upfront about what it wanted to do and quietly changing its terms with no notice to current customers is a big ‘no no,’” Rachel King, the founder of Toll Genealogy, a resource for genealogists, said in an email. “At the end of the day, this is valuable work. Anything that helps put a name to unidentified body, potentially enabling their loved ones to finally know what happened to them, is a good thing.”
More than 15 million people have submitted their DNA to companies like FamilyTreeDNA in recent years. While they represent a small fraction of all people, the pool of profiles is large enough to allow 60 percent of white Americans — the primary users of DNA sites in the United States — to be identified through the databases, according to researchers.
As the number of tests expands in the coming years, researchers believe that 90 percent of Americans of European descent will be identifiable, even if they did not submit their own DNA, according to researchers.
“It’s about their third cousin that they don’t know exists or their child that they haven’t had yet,” Ms. Murphy said. “We shouldn’t be having this conversation about just the users on the site. It’s more than their privacy that is at stake.”
In 2003, the “King of Pop” gave a strange, on-brand performance in “Living With Michael Jackson,” a 90-minute television special hosted by the British journalist Martin Bashir. Part documentary, part “Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous,” this program seemed to demonstrate just how out of touch with reality Jackson was. Among other things, he insisted that he’d only had two cosmetic surgeries in his life — a claim that seemed silly at best, even to a lifelong M.J. fan like me.
Then there was a 13-year-old boy whom Jackson had befriended. The boy defended sleeping in the singer’s bed at Jackson’s Neverland Ranch, at one point in the interview resting his head on Jackson’s shoulder as the star declared, “The most loving thing to do is share your bed with someone.”
For some, this rang alarm bells; months after the special aired, the police began a criminal investigation, which led to Jackson’s being charged on several counts, including child molestation involving the 13-year-old.
But in 2005, a jury found him not guilty in a trial in which the former child star Macaulay Culkin and another witness named Wade Robson testified that they had spent many nights with Jackson and had not been abused. It was easy for many fans to categorize that uneasy conversation from “Living With Michael Jackson” not as criminal, but as just another example of the singer’s disconnect.
That isn’t possible for me anymore. I came away from “Leaving Neverland,” a new two-part HBO documentary in which Robson and James Safechuck accuse Jackson of having molested them when they were children, fully convinced by their stories. (The 13-year-old did not participate in the documentary, but his presence looms over it in news footage and as a figure Robson says he now wishes he could have been a “comrade” to during the trial.)
A subsequent rewatch of that conversation with Bashir left me feeling mortified, in a way I probably should have felt long ago.
Perhaps even more difficult to digest than the very explicit details of the abuse Robson and Safechuck describe in “Neverland” are the indelible effects that persisted into adulthood. In “Living With Michael Jackson,” the way Jackson speaks about the physical abuse he suffered as a child at the hands of his father, Joseph, only lends more credence to Robson’s and Safechuck’s stories. The three seemed to process their individual traumas in similar ways.
Since January, when “Leaving Neverland” debuted at the Sundance Film Festival, Jackson’s superfans, his family and his estate have tried to poke holes in Safechuck’s and Robson’s stories. During an interview with Gayle King that aired last week, Michael’s brother Marlon wondered, “If Neverland was so horrifying” for Robson and Safechuck, “why would you keep going back?”
[Michael Jackson’s fans are tenacious. | Our critic Wesley Morris reviews the documentary.]
“Leaving Neverland” answers that question compellingly. In Part 2, Robson recalls the strong emotional bond toward Jackson he still felt as an adult, a closeness cemented when he was 7 and first met the star. Robson, 22 at the time of the trial, says in the film he was “excited at the idea of being able to defend him and being able to save him.” He says he had nightmares of seeing Jackson in jail, and adds that he wasn’t yet ready to see himself as a victim.
“I still loved him deeply,” said Robson. And as his wife, Amanda, says in “Leaving Neverland,” “Love is powerful.”
In discussing patterns of abuse in relationships, many psychologists and researchers point out that victims commonly do not recognize their abuse as what it is and remain close to those who hurt them. Jackson showered Safechuck and Robson with attention and presented himself as a child trapped in a grown man’s body. When such an intimate relationship is established, as Safechuck and Robson say was the case with Jackson, the memories of happier feelings can overwhelm the toxic ones.
In countering Robson and Safechuck’s claims in “Neverland,” Marlon and others in the Jackson family gravitate toward the idea that children who were actually abused by Michael would not maintain a long-term relationship with him. Paradoxically, many Jackson siblings have long undermined their own argument, sticking by their notoriously violent and controlling father in public. For decades, stories of the physical and mental harm Joseph inflicted on his children have been integral to the Jacksons’ own family mythos, often cited as the key to their success.
Understanding of how corporal punishment affects children has largely evolved across generations, and many today consider it a form of abuse. Joseph’s methods certainly seemed to cross a boundary. In “Living With Michael Jackson,” Michael describes being hit with belts, electrical cords, “whatever was around.”
He tells Bashir that he and his siblings were “terrified” by the mere presence of Joseph, and he admitted to having a “strong hate” for him. In an interview with Piers Morgan from 2011, Michael’s sister Janet remembered being younger than 8 when Joseph hit her. In 1991, their sister LaToya Jackson caused a stir when she said she had been sexually abused by Joseph.
Although they have acknowledged the trauma, some of the siblings — including Janet in her self-help book “True You”— have defended Joseph as being “old-school,” and like any other parent of that “spare the rod, spoil the child” era. Janet confessed to Morgan that she wished her relationship with her father had been different, yet she added, “I know that he loves me.”
During her tour last summer, she dedicated her song “Together Again” to Joseph, who died  in June 2018. LaToya remembered their father in part by saying she was “extremely appreciative” of the way he “disciplined us.” Michael told Bashir: “I totally forgive him for all of it. You have to.”
That discussion of Jackson’s childhood might be the most honest moment in the bizarre Bashir special. When Jackson is asked to recall what it was like to be subjected to Joseph’s beatings, the camera zooms closer on his face. He tenses up, letting out an uncomfortable chuckle as he briefly looks away.
Jackson winces. He describes his father as presiding over rehearsals with a belt in his hand, and hitting the brothers with it if they missed a dance step.
“He would tear you up,” Jackson says, adding that it made all of the siblings “nervous.”
“How often would he beat you?” Bashir asks.
Jackson winces again, answering softly, “Too much.” The pop star’s pain is palpable and raw; a childhood cut short is evident.
The internalized shame and disconnect Jackson showed with Bashir — he seems to suggest that calling his father’s actions abuse is wrong — were mirrored in what Robson and Safechuck said.
Held up together, the testimonies of all three make it even easier for me to believe Robson and Safechuck’s stories about Michael. Years later, their pain in “Leaving Neverland” is also palpable and raw.
“It still feels shameful,” Safechuck reveals in the final minutes of the documentary. “I still have — feelings that it was my fault.”
As he says this, his mannerisms echo Jackson’s — the same wince, the same pain of having to relive a distressing time in his life.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The schools are among the most recognizable Catholic institutions in New York, with reputations extending far beyond the church’s followers and the city’s borders: Xavier, Regis, Brooklyn Prep, Fordham Prep. They educated many in the city’s Catholic elite, producing politicians, authors, academics and at least one Supreme Court justice. They regularly appear on lists of New York’s best Catholic schools.
But on Tuesday, the schools’ names popped up again and again on a different kind of list: One naming Jesuit priests who were identified by the Society of Jesus as having a history of sexual abuse found to be “more likely true than not after investigation.”
In some cases, the priests passed through the schools in careers that spanned as many as 30 years.
The lists of accused priests were published by the Jesuit order one after the other in recent weeks, creating rosters of several hundred names. The Society of Jesus, as the Jesuit order is known, is an influential force in the global church; it has more than 16,000 members, including Pope Francis.
The latest list names priests who served in the order’s province covering the Northeastern United States, most of whom served in Jesuit schools.
Nearly all of the allegations are from decades ago, and many of the priests have been dead for years. The disclosure offered virtually no details fleshing out the claims, just names, career histories and date ranges for the suspected abuse.
Still, the list has provided another troubling indication of the church’s handling of a sex abuse epidemic that has engulfed it in scandal.
One priest, now dead, admitted to abusing minors in 1961, the same year he started an 11-year stint at Brooklyn Prep. Another is accused of abuse across the 1960s and 1970s, when he worked for four high schools.
“At the heart of this crisis is the painful, sinful and illegal harm done to children by those whom they should have been able to trust,” the Very Rev. John J. Cecero, the provincial for the Jesuits in the Northeast, said in a letter addressed to “Friends in the Lord.”
“We did not know any best practices to handle these violations many decades ago and regrettably made mistakes along the way.”
The Jesuits have contributed to a flood of names that have surfaced in recent weeks as dioceses and religious orders across the country have sought to move toward transparency. The disclosures come as the Catholic Church confronts a wave of investigations by law enforcement officials on the federal and state levels, as well as a crisis of confidence among followers shaken by the church’s handling of sex abuse.
Advocates said victims racked with shame and anguish have received long-awaited affirmation as the church shines a glimmer of light on cases that have been shrouded in darkness and denial.
“This new transparency by the church is a good thing for victims, naming priests who are predators,” said Mary McKenna, a leader of the New York City chapter of Snap, or Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests. “It validates the victims and helps them heal.”
The Jesuit order is known for its emphasis on education, and it has long operated schools, including some of the most respected colleges and universities affiliated with the Catholic Church.
Last year, the Society of Jesus said it would release the names of all of its clergy across the United States who were the subject of credible abuse claims. Since December, several hundred Jesuits have been identified in abuse allegations dating as far back as the 1950s.
The Northeast province, the last to make its disclosure, named 50 men who have faced at least one allegation the order considers credible. Most of the accusations involved Jesuits working in schools or serving in parishes.
At least nine of them were assigned to Boston College High School around the time of the suspected abuse. Many of the others passed through Canisius High School in Buffalo and McQuaid Jesuit in Rochester during their careers.
One of the longest-serving priests on the list, Cornelius Carr, served in at least seven schools from 1945 to 1993, and worked in parishes until 2005, when he was accused of abuse that took place about 15 years before. He died in 2013.
Outside of the Jesuit disclosures, at least 35 Catholic dioceses in the United States have published accused priests’ names. The pace accelerated substantially after the explosive grand jury report released in August by the Pennsylvania attorney general’s office that detailed the abuse of more than 1,000 people by hundreds of priests.
Critics have raised doubts over how complete the lists are, as the dioceses and orders were making the disclosures at their own discretion. In some instances, victims have pointed out names they believed were absent.
“One thing missing from this list is what the immediate response by Jesuit officials was to the allegations,” Zach Hiner, the executive director of Snap, said in a statement. “Were the complaints investigated? Were they reported to police? Were priests immediately removed in response? The answers to these questions will be critical to fully understanding not only the scope of the crisis, but what changes must be made in order to prevent future cover-ups and put the safety of children front and center.”
Jesuit officials said the allegations largely came to their attention decades after the abuse, as many victims came forward after 2002, when the church’s handling of sex abuse in the United States first swelled into a crisis.
Ms. McKenna said the church’s actions, like denying abuse and transferring priests, “make the victims suffer more and re-victimize them.” She added that many victims had been threatened and traumatized. “It takes years for them to come forward.”
In the latest disclosure, the most recent claim of abuse was made in 1996. In his letter, Father Cecero, of the Northeastern province, said the order has adopted more stringent practices to prevent abuse.
Father Cecero said credibly accused Jesuits have been removed from ministry. Those who remain in the order serve in roles that involve no interaction with children, he said, and live under a “closely monitored safety plan.”
“Changed practices do not erase past history,” he said, adding, “Any case of abuse is shocking and a profound failure. Jesuits who have offended can no longer offend. Safeguards put in place since 2002 help create safe environments for everyone.”
At least 35 priests on the list have died, and others have been defrocked, permanently removed from ministry or restricted from serving in public roles.
Some names on the list, like Eugene O’Brien’s, were previously known. Mr. O’Brien was accused of molestation while he was principal and president of Fordham Prep in the 1970s, according to advocacy groups and legal records.
In 1997, the order and the Archdiocese of New York settled a lawsuit brought by the accuser for $25,000. Mr. O’Brien, who was removed from ministry in 2002, admitted to abuse that started in the 1960s, according to the order’s disclosure.
But advocacy groups assailed officials at Fordham Prep in 2008 for allowing Mr. O’Brien and Roy Drake, a priest who is now deceased but also on the list, to live on campus.
Other names on the Northeast’s list were not public until now, or their mentions were limited to discussions on victims’ online message boards.
John L. Farrand, a priest who admitted to abuse in 1961, worked at Brooklyn Prep until 1972 and served in schools until 1997. He died in 2003.
Thomas Denny, a priest accused of abuse that occurred in the 1960s and 1970s, served in three high schools in New York City, as well as schools in Rochester, Puerto Rico, Jersey City and Buffalo. His final posting was at a parish in Lagos, Nigeria.
Another priest, John T. Ryan, had worked as an editor and writer for America Magazine, the Jesuits’ weekly publication.
Mr. Ryan, who left the order, was accused of abuse that took place in the 1980s and 1990s, when he worked for the Jesuit Seminary & Mission Bureau in New York and the magazine.
Mr. Denny, Mr. Ryan and Mr. O’Brien were not reported on the list as deceased.
In a letter published Tuesday, the Rev. Matthew F. Malone, the magazine’s president and editor in chief, said he learned of the allegations last week.
“The public disclosure of this information,” he wrote, “is a necessary step toward justice and reconciliation for the victims and survivors of sexual abuse at the hands of clergy.”
An intriguing aspect of Brunei’s barbarous Shariah laws is that if they were to be really enforced, a few of the sultan’s ridiculously wealthy, jet-setting kin would be leading candidates for death by stoning. Adultery is one of the crimes for which the archaic penalty is prescribed under the stern laws that went into effect on April 3 — along with sex between men, abortion and rape — and tabloids around the world have accumulated plenty of evidence against some Bruneian royals.
Such royal hypocrisy may seem to be the norm among autocratic rulers sitting atop oceans of oil who place no limits on their own dissolute lifestyles and yet impose cruel Islamic law on their subjects. And tiny Brunei, a country roughly the size of Delaware that shares the island of Borneo with Malaysia and Indonesia, might not seem worth getting worked up about.
Yet it is, for several reasons. First is that “this is the way we do it” is no longer a viable excuse for cruelty and barbarism anywhere. The world has gone way past times when witches were burned, homosexuals castrated or adulterers branded, and Brunei has signed (but not yet ratified) the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
Brunei’s cruel, inhuman and degrading penalties are not a relic of history, like the sodomy laws that stayed on the books of American states well into the 20th century, but the whim of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, 72, who has ruled the Lilliputian nation since 1967 and ranks among the most ludicrously wealthy people on earth. He has long pushed his predominantly Muslim nation toward a conservative and restrictive form of Islam, and he first announced the new penalties — which, in addition to death by stoning for gay male sex, include amputation for theft and 40 lashes for lesbian sex — six years ago.
An international outcry at that time prompted him to delay the laws. A similar outcry has accompanied their latest introduction: The United States, the European Union, Australia and others, as well as the United Nations human rights chief Michelle Bachelet, have all denounced the penalties, and celebrities including George Clooney, Elton John, Billie Jean King and Ellen DeGeneres called for a boycott of luxury hotels owned by Brunei, which include the Beverly Hills Hotel, the Hotel Bel-Air in Los Angeles, the Dorchester in London and the Hôtel Plaza Athénée in Paris.
Besides the barbarity of the penalties, there is the danger that the law could nudge neighboring Islamic giants Malaysia and Indonesia toward tightening their own national or regional versions of Shariah laws targeting homosexuals. Conservative Muslim politicians in both countries were quick to voice their support for Brunei’s law. Beyond that, there is the fact that Sultan Hassanal enjoys his absolute dominion and his obscene treasure, including a gold-plated Rolls-Royce and a 1,788-room palace, because the world outside buys his oil. That gives his clients — including Britain, Brunei’s former colonial master — a measure of responsibility and leverage.
That celebrities are taking action is good, but governments and multinationals that do business with the wealthy sultanate have an obligation to look for ways to persuade Sultan Hassanal and other beneficiaries of Brunei’s oil riches that they best quickly bring their laws into compliance with their human rights obligations and abandon vicious punishments for blameless behavior.
WASHINGTON — When President Trump’s trade team presented Chinese officials with a list of bold economic demands in Beijing last May, one of China’s state-controlled news outlets, Global Times, panned the request and blared a curious headline: “Is it now 1840?”
Five months later, China’s national news agency, Xinhua, accused Vice President Mike Pence of lacking knowledge of China’s past after he complained that Beijing was merely paying lip service to opening its economy.
Behind the pushback is a long and painful history of China surrendering to Western powers, with origins in what the Chinese news media refers to as a “century of humiliation” that began with the “unequal treaties” of the 19th century after the first Opium War.
History has been haunting trade negotiations between the world’s two largest economies, which have dragged on for more than a year. While the administration’s requests surrounding forced technology transfer and subsidies of state-owned enterprises remain unresolved, the deepest division centers on the United States’ insistence of an enforcement mechanism that gives it power to impose tariffs if China abrogates its end of a trade agreement.
That issue is expected to be front and center on Thursday, when Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, will again try to make headway toward a final deal during a two-day visit to Beijing. Next week, a delegation of government officials from China is scheduled to come to Washington for additional talks.
As they work to agree on trade terms, Trump administration officials have outlined various situations for enforcing an agreement. Most recently, negotiators have called for a system in which representatives from both countries would meet to address problems that arise, escalating complaints to the top levels of government as necessary.
The Chinese have agreed to periodic meetings at the levels of office director, vice minister and minister, which would allow the United States to keep tabs on China’s behavior and air complaints from companies about unfair business practices. If China fails to keep its agreement, the United States would respond “proportionally but unilaterally,” Mr. Lighthizer said at a congressional hearing last month.
Republican lawmakers, who have been closely tracking the negotiations, say they expect enforcement to be a determining factor in whether a deal is reached.
“What we want is the ability to put on unilateral tariffs that can’t be counteracted by a tariff from China,” Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, told reporters on Wednesday.
While Mr. Grassley said he was not sure whether such a request was a reasonable one to make, he said it was the goal of the Trump administration.
“We’ve got to have enforcement, one way or the other,” he said, adding that China had a history of breaking promises on trade.
But China is resisting the Trump administration’s demand that the United States be allowed to impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises and that China agree not to retaliate with its own punitive measures.
The Trump administration says such a mechanism is necessary to ensure that China lives up to its agreement and does not repeat what it says is a pattern of reneging on past promises. But such disarmament has proved to be unpalatable in China, in part, historians say, because of stinging memories of one-sided treaties from an earlier era.
“Every schoolchild in China and every educated Chinese person knows about the ‘century of humiliation,’” said Stephen R. Platt, a historian and author of “Imperial Twilight: The Opium War and the End of China’s Last Golden Age.” “There’s a lingering memory of that history from the 19th century that goes a long way to explain the desire in China for a global trading order that works more on China’s terms.”
He added, “They have to look strong on trade.”
In 1839, the big trade war that gripped the world was between Britain and China’s Qing dynasty. Britain was buying large quantities of Chinese silk and tea, but China was buying little in return, creating an uncomfortably large trade deficit. So Britain turned to smuggling Indian opium, a product that proved hard to resist, into China, and its resistance turned a trade war into a real one.
The three-year war ended with the Treaty of Nanking, which gave Britain control of Hong Kong and opened several new trade ports in China. British merchants were allowed to come to China and trade freely with no restrictions.
That was just the beginning. By the 1850s, the United States, Russia and France signed treaties with China with the same terms, allowing foreigners to sell goods with low tariffs and giving them privileged status in mainland China. Rather than show respect for the superiority of Chinese culture, China was forced to adhere to the traditions of Western diplomacy. The influx of foreign culture reoriented China’s economy, eventually leading to the dynasty’s downfall in 1912.
Some historians, such as William C. Kirby, a professor of Chinese studies at Harvard Business School, argue that the unequal treaties did have benefits for China such as modernizing its institutions and its education system. However, that does not always mean that trade pacts are mutually beneficial.
“One should always be cautious that what is good for you, you imagine is good for the other party automatically,” Mr. Kirby said. “It might be, it might not be.”
Trump administration officials have tried to make the case that the changes it wants China to make will benefit everyone.
“The kinds of things that we’re asking for are not anti-Chinese at all,” Mr. Lighthizer told NPR this week. “In fact, the reformers would say it’s pro-Chinese. It will help their economy, not hurt their economy.”
Despite suggesting that their interests are aligned, it has been difficult for the United States to push China to make changes without coming across as bullying or insensitive. After talks stalled in February, Larry Kudlow, the director of the White House’s National Economic Council, said that Mr. Lighthizer read the “riot act” to Liu He, China’s vice premier and the country’s top trade negotiator.
It has also been hard for the Trump administration to sell the agreement as being two-sided. Mr. Trump has accused China of essentially stealing from the United States for decades and his administration is demanding that China buy more American goods, stop subsidizing its own companies and treat foreign companies fairly. In return, the United States has so far offered to remove some, but not all, of the $250 billion worth of tariffs Mr. Trump imposed last year.
“I consider that we’ve rebuilt China,” Mr. Trump said last week at an event in Ohio. “$500 billion a year taken out of our country,” he said, referring to the amount of Chinese goods imported into the United States.
China remains skeptical that many of the concessions that Mr. Trump is asking for will really help uplift its economy.
While old memories of humiliation might still be fresh in China’s collective mind, its status in the world has changed drastically in the last 150 years. Now the world’s second-largest economy, China has been exerting its own influence around the world.
Development programs like China’s Belt and Road Initiative, a global infrastructure investment plan, have drawn criticism from the United States and in parts of Europe for being insufficiently transparent and putting more vulnerable economies in precarious positions.
“Chinese policy has shifted from fear of being bullied into unequal treaties into becoming a bully itself and forcing unequal agreements on weaker nations,” said Michael Pillsbury, a China scholar at the Hudson Institute who advises the Trump administration.
But, Mr. Pillsbury points out, the Chinese do not see things that way when it comes to a trade deal with the United States. The Communist Party was founded nearly a century ago on a promise of putting a stop to humiliation at the hands of foreigners.
“The Communist Party was created on a narrative of standing up to, and ending, unequal treaties,” he said.
Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft’s arraignment on charges of soliciting prostitution has been moved a day later, to March 28, court papers said on Thursday, and will no longer overlap with the N.F.L. annual meetings.
Despite an all-capital warning on the document saying, “The defendant must be present at this hearing,” a spokeswoman for the Palm Beach County clerk’s office clarified that Mr. Kraft could still be represented at the hearing by his lawyers.
Lawyers with experience representing clients in these kinds of cases in Palm Beach County, Fla., said that the “Notice of Hearing” document is considered a form letter and that lawyers represent most defendants at these hearings. Lawyers for Mr. Kraft did not immediately return calls seeking comment, but said in a statement to The Boston Globe that he would not appear at the hearing.
The arraignment was originally scheduled for March 27, the final day of the league meetings in Phoenix. The hearing will be at a satellite court in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., not the main courthouse in downtown West Palm Beach.
Mr. Kraft faces two first-degree misdemeanor charges, which include a penalty of up to one year in jail. He has pleaded not guilty and denies any criminal activity. The police say they have video of Mr. Kraft engaging in sex acts for money in two visits to a strip-mall massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla.
He was one of two dozen men charged with soliciting prostitution at the massage parlor, which is about a 30-minute drive north of Palm Beach, where Mr. Kraft often visits. Their cases are part of a six-month investigation into what the police say is a human sex trafficking network operating out of nearly a dozen massage parlors in several counties in Florida.
Prosecutors say that Mr. Kraft and the other men had no knowledge that the women working in the massage parlor had any connection to human sex trafficking. Still, the prosecutors increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors, against Mr. Kraft and the other defendants.
Prosecutors have said that first-time offenders like Mr. Kraft are unlikely to face jail time, but if convicted, they could face fines of up to $5,000 and 100 hours of community service.
The court document offers instructions on obtaining a public defender, but Mr. Kraft is hardly likely to be in need of one.
Though the case is a minor one by legal standards, Mr. Kraft has spared no expense, bringing in sought-after lawyers, including William A. Burck, who worked in the George W. Bush White House, and Jack Goldberger, who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, the New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.
A vigorous defense is unusual for a case of this kind. Most defendants take a plea deal, pay a fine and complete community service. They can later petition the court to expunge their record.
Legals experts say that bringing in high-powered lawyers, especially ones from out of state, is unnecessary in misdemeanor cases like the one that Mr. Kraft is fighting. It is often more effective, they say, to hire lawyers who are familiar with state court judges and state attorneys, who are elected in Florida.
“The problem with Kraft is the problem with famous people, which is they think if you bring in famous attorneys, they’ll do a better job,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor now in private practice. “In Florida, you don’t walk into state court with an out-of-town attorney. Who are you trying to impress?”
Last week, Dave Aronberg, the state attorney overseeing the cases in Palm Beach County, said that all defendants would be treated equally, regardless of their wealth or fame.
“Our office treats everyone the same, whether you have a lot of money or are indigent,” Mr. Aronberg said last week. “No one gets special treatment in Palm Beach County.”
Mr. Aronberg, a former assistant attorney general and a Florida state senator, is a Democrat who ran unopposed when he was re-elected in 2016.
Mr. Kraft has long been associated with Democratic causes. But he is also close friends with President Trump, who has invited Mr. Kraft to fly on Air Force One and dine at his Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago.
MADRID — Hugo Carvajal, a former Venezuelan military intelligence chief who Washington believes has valuable information on President Nicolas Maduro, was jailed on Saturday by Spain's High Court pending a decision on an extradition request to the United States, a court spokesman said.
A former general and close ally of former Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez, Carvajal was arrested by Spanish police on Friday on a U.S. warrant for drug trafficking charges.
Following Carvajal's arrest, the United States hailed on Friday his possible collaboration as a potential boon in the fight against Maduro, who still retains control of the bulk of Venezuela's armed forces and state institutions.
During the hearing, Carvajal denied links with drug trafficking and Colombia's FARC rebel group and challenged his potential extradition to the United States, the spokesman said.
Carvajal will fight the U.S. extradition request on the grounds of having ties in Spain, where his family currently resides after travelling here before him.
Carvajal left Venezuela a month ago, travelling by boat for 16 hours to reach the Dominican Republic before flying to Madrid, he told the court.
The United States must now formalise its extradition request, which will be ruled upon by the High Court.
The U.S. Justice Department said on Friday it had requested Carvajal’s extradition on cocaine smuggling charges filed in 2011 and unsealed in 2014.
Carvajal was previously sanctioned by the U.S. government in 2008 for "materially assisting the narcotics trafficking activities" of Colombia's FARC rebel group.
A U.S. administration official told Reuters on Friday that Carvajal has valuable information on Maduro and is willing to cooperate.
Carvajal denounced Chavez’s successor Maduro in February and backed Juan Guaido, who in January declared himself Venezuela’s interim leader.
 (Reporting by Miguel Gutierrez and Sam Edwards, Editing by Jane Merriman and Angus MacSwan)
WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.
In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.
She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.
“It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.
[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.]
Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement.
“That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.”
Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said.
“The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added.
[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]
The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.
Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.
“This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.”
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration.
“If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said.
Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.
Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.
Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical.
The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.
Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.
Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.
“To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said.
In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.
Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.
Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.
The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.
Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.
“You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.”
Ms. Nielsen did not respond.
The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.
During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.
Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.”
“The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.”
For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security.
Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.
By year’s end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the government’s 35-day shutdown over funding for the president’s border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.
And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language.
“We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.
LOS ANGELES — Walt Disney Co unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix Inc. 
The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the "Star Wars" galaxy, "Toy Story" creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disney's libraries will include: 
-Classic Disney animated movies such as "101 Dalmatians" and "Bambi" 
-The entire Pixar catalog including "A Bug's Life" and "Cars" 
-"Captain Marvel" and three other Marvel films 
-The first and second "Star Wars" trilogies
-Live-action movies such as the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series, "Mary Poppins" and "The Sound of Music."
-More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as "Hannah Montana"
Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service. According to the company, that will include: 
STAR WARS
A new season of animated series "Star Wars: The Clone Wars"
A live-action "Star Wars" series called "The Mandalorian," developed by Jon Favreau
A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" 
MARVEL
A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston
A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch
ANIMATION
"Monsters at Work," a series inspired by Pixar hit "Monsters Inc." Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
MOVIES
Remakes of Disney classics such as "Lady and the Tramp" and "Sword in the Stone" 
"Noelle," a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader
"Togo," starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog 
TELEVISION
A new "High School Musical" series
"Diary of a Female President," a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States
NON-FICTION
"Marvel's 616," a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world
"Be Our Chef," a food competition show in which families compete and the winner's dish will be served at Walt Disney World
"Rogue Trip," a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit
 (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler)
GOA — Elisabeth Ramnacher, a German who prefers to go by the name Yogini, wanted to show her employees what Goa used to look like back in its hippie days. The only trouble was, she couldn’t find a picture of herself with clothes on.
When hippies traveled overland from Europe to India decades ago, Goa was often the final stop on the trail, welcoming to its beaches Westerners who wanted to drop out in a place where living was cheap, drugs plentiful and swimming nude the norm.
“Goans’ attitude and openness allowed the hippie culture to thrive,” said Ms. Ramnacher, 58, who first came in the 1980s and now owns the popular Villa Blanche cafe here in Goa.
But most of the original countercultural community is now gone. It has fallen victim to age, higher costs of living and the death of the hippie trail in the late 1970s, as wars closed the route.
The final blow came, remnants of the community say, when the government started cracking down a decade ago on the informal businesses the hippies had set up to support themselves.
Today, Goa’s renegade lifestyle attracts an entirely new type of traveler — young Indians who are flocking here not to find themselves, as the hippies once did, but to celebrate their bachelorette parties or dance atop bars.
As India’s economy booms and builds a middle class that barely existed two decades ago, Goa has transformed from a laid-back enclave for bohemian Westerners to a mass tourist destination for Indians.
“Goa is not Goa,” said David D’Souza, the owner of Tito’s, which started as a beach hut restaurant built by his father in 1971, and is now a throbbing open-air nightclub. “It’s India now.”
Tito’s shares a street crammed with similar clubs, like Bollywood Discothèque and Cocktails and Dreams. A stroll through the neighborhood is an assault on the eyes and ears, with neon signs glaring and drug pushers sometimes shouting to sell their merchandise, trying to be heard over a cacophony of electronic music bearing down from all directions of the night sky.
“Lots of Indian youngsters have made bucket loads of money, and they just want to blow it,” Mr. D’Souza said. “It’s a lot more yuppie now.”
The concept of vacation is relatively new for many Indians, a product of the economic liberalization and subsequent boom over the last three decades.
In a country of 1.3 billion, if just 1 percent of the population joins the middle class, that means 13 million more people with the ability to take vacations. The United Nations estimates India will produce 50 million outbound tourists by 2022, compared with eight million a decade ago.
Although India’s economy has averaged about 7 percent growth every year for the last 18 years, the typical middle-income Indian family still earns much less than its Western counterpart. This has directed the tourism internally, to places like Goa.
Annually, tourists outnumber Goa’s population of 1.5 million by five times.
Jagdeep Singh, 35, from the northern city of Chandigarh, recently chatted with his brother-in-law on Goa’s main strip of beach, which was dotted with trash, umbrellas stamped with beer logos and hawkers selling beads and scarves.
Both men were wearing matching black-and-white Mickey Mouse T-shirts that complemented their black turbans. They watched 18 of their family members play in the waves, half wearing the Mickey Mouse T-shirts, the rest sporting Captain America ones.
“My parents weren’t from this kind of culture,” Mr. Singh said. “If they came here, they would be in full dress and would be uncomfortable because people are in bathing suits and drinking.”
He credits the growth of India’s private sector for affording him vacations like this. His father, a government employee, earned a meager salary.
“My family never went on vacation when I was a little boy,” he said. “My son is 2 years old and this is his second time in Goa. He’s seen more of India than my parents.”
A little further down the coastline, a group of Indian men on a company retreat wore matching straw hats, chugging Budweiser beers and throwing the empty bottles toward the sea.
Nearby, a family from Gujarat, a state in northern India, hopped on a banana boat, the girls in long-sleeve dresses.
Although tourism has been good for the local economy, not everyone is happy about the heaving crowds.
Most visitors come from the north of India, where conservative mores reign. Goans scoff at their demand for “pure veg” food — observant Hindus avoid meat — and mock their wearing of jeans to swim in the sea. They also chastise them for taking photos of women in bikinis.
Goa, India’s smallest state, was a Portuguese colony until 1961, when Indian troops annexed it.
Last year, Goa’s state minister for planning called north Indian tourists the “scum of the earth.”
Goans describe their own lifestyle as “susegad,” from the Portuguese “sossegado,” a term conveying the chilled-out contentment that comes with living here.
Residents, and long-term visitors, are worried the influx from the north could change Goa’s tolerant culture.
“Goa was a place to let your hair down, to be who you want to be,” said Stafford Braganza, 45, whose family is from Goa, but who lives and works in Mumbai as the head of makeup and technique at L’Oréal, the cosmetic company.
Mr. Braganza, who is gay, was sunbathing on the beach with two friends, all wearing red Speedo-like bathing suits, their chiseled chests welcoming the sun.
Even though India’s Supreme Court decriminalized homosexuality last year, Mr. Braganza said the presence of northern Indian tourists made him feel less free and no longer quite so “susegad.”
“Goans have a special culture of acceptance,” Mr. Braganza said. “But lots of Indians are coming from everywhere now, bringing their social customs from their conservative cities. And there’s a lot of them.”
He acknowledged there could be a false sense of nostalgia for the hippie days, which weren’t without tension. Because hippies would go swimming nude — illegal in India — Mr. Braganza’s mother forbade him from going to the beach when he was growing up.
Ms. Ramnacher, the cafe owner, agreed that the Western hippies could sometimes go too far. “We probably overstepped our bounds,” she said.
When the Anjuna market was a hippie bazaar, bartering, not money, ruled. But the hippie merchant community was mostly wiped out when the government started to regulate businesses a decade ago, expecting taxes to be paid and business licenses to be purchased.
Today, there are tensions between the Goan merchants and those who have come from across India to capitalize on the tourist rush. The newer stalls sell things like cashmere, unthinkable attire in Goa’s year-round heat but common in northern India.
Remnants of the original hippie market can be found, but these vendors concede their days are likely numbered.
“The pirate days are over,” said Michelle Antonio, 53, a Brazilian-Italian merchant selling handicrafts, and a resident of Goa for some 25 years.
“Yes, there’s been a clampdown,” he said, but he wasn’t bitter and was instead grateful for his long run here.
“In our own countries, we aren’t so welcoming to foreigners,” he added. “We never would have let people live, ‘susegad,’ for this long.”
Nobody knows for sure who the real president of Venezuela is at the moment: Nicolás Maduro, who was sworn in on Jan. 10, or Juan Guaidó, who shortly afterward assumed the powers of the presidency, on behalf of the legislature.
Mr. Guaidó has captured the heart of the nation. A vast majority of Venezuelans support him. All political parties in Venezuela other than the ruling party accept his legal argument — that Mr. Maduro’s 2018 re-election was fraudulent. He returned to his homeland today — once again challenging a travel ban imposed on him by Maduro’s regime — after touring five Latin American countries to shore up support for democracy in Venezuela.
Mr. Maduro has the heart of only one institution: the military. This was evidenced on Feb. 23, when he used brute military force to successfully block the entry of humanitarian aid, killing civilians, and in Nero-like fashion, set some delivery trucks on fire, while he danced salsa on national television.
The question is how to confront Mr. Maduro’s military assault without turning to military action. This is Venezuela’s predicament. As a peaceful resolution appears increasingly unlikely, Mr. Guaidó has called on the opposition allies to mediate or intervene.
Most analysts, including me, agree that foreign intervention is too risky. The logistics are too complicated, and the enterprise would put the duplicitous Trump administration in the driver’s seat, which would calm no one’s nerves.
However, a few alternatives exist short of militarizing the conflict, even though they still would involve some degree of militarization. To understand this, we must first understand how Mr. Maduro’s military operates.
In every authoritarian regime, military support is the sine qua non of regime survival: Remove the support of the military and the dictator falls. In that sense, the Maduro regime fits the conventional model of authoritarian politics. Democratization requires decoupling the military from Maduro.
But the politics of decoupling the military from Maduro has proved complicated because Mr. Maduro’s military alliance, in many respects, is more unconventional than not. His military is not a single, professional, vertical organization. It comprises multiple elements, each with its own interest in supporting the regime. A strategy to divorce it from Mr. Maduro requires deploying policies to address each of those groups.
There’s the standard military establishment, which in Venezuela consists of professional career soldiers. Then there are nonstandard groups. They include ideologized soldiers, working together with Cuban military and intelligence officials to crack down on dissent. They also include bureaucrat generals who support Mr. Maduro because they have good jobs running state-owned corporations, and profit-seeking soldiers, who are making a fortune trafficking in illicit markets, including the drug trade. Finally, there are Maduro’s killing agents, in charge of repressing.
Before the 2000s, the possibility of this type of diversity within the military was hardly discussed in military politics textbooks. Today, this diversity, or what political scientists are calling the new oligopoly of state violence, is what undemocratic regimes and failed states prefer. And in Venezuela, this oligopoly is dominated by the criminal-minded soldiers and killing agents.
Killing agents in particular have become the hallmark of Mr. Maduro’s rule. They comprise two groups: the Special Actions Forces, or FAES, created in 2017 to combat crime but in reality charged with conducting politically motivated killings in poor neighborhoods, and the so-called colectivos, armed civilians paid by the government. In the early 2000s, colectivos were community-organized reservists. Today they consist mostly of delinquents, thugs and even former inmates. They show up on motorcycles at protests, gun in hand and with their faces covered, to terrorize participants. Colectivos spare professional soldiers from the need to repress.
The problem with Mr. Guaidó’s strategy — in fact, any peaceful and democratic strategy to demilitarize a regime — is that it cannot easily address the concerns of these disparate military groups.
Some can be addressed with policies already offered by the interim president. For instance, Mr. Guaidó’s offer of transitional justice (amnesty) with fair elections has enormous appeal to scared soldiers and many professional soldiers. This is why we are seeing defections by many of these soldiers.
But there is little in Mr. Guaidó’s policies that would appeal to hard-core ideologues, for-profit and criminal soldiers, and colectivos. Hard-core ideologues are likely to stand with Mr. Maduro unconditionally. The for-profit generals will gain little from transitional justice: They will be left without status and profits even if their transgressions are forgiven. And the colectivos are especially hard to deal with because they are the least controllable group — they are too decentralized and have no corporate interest to defend.
Transitioning to democracy in Venezuela will require putting order to this fragmented military. The darkest groups within this institution cannot be invited to join a democratic movement — that would produce an instant conflict of interest. Instead, these groups need to be neutralized somehow.
A civilian alone cannot do it. Only actors from within the military establishment — those who know the identities of the armed actors within their ranks, their businesses and deals — can do the revamping of the military that is needed.
Mr. Guaidó and his international allies may have no option but to entertain an interim civilian-military partnership under some form of international tutelage. They need to continue to reach out to some of the more honest military officers, those interested in the integrity of the institution, to turn against not just Mr. Maduro but also the disparate groups across the military. The mission: Bring the military institution back to order.
This will of course require applying a combination of force and some concessions to the least professional groups within the military. Smart witness-protection programs along with an expansion of amnesty provisions will need to be offered. Economic opportunities will need to be found for both profit-seeking soldiers and colectivos.
The transition to democracy, given the fragmented and dark nature of Venezuela’s military, will therefore never be a clean, overnight transition from military rule to civilian rule. It will require a transition period that no doubt will be unpleasant for Venezuelan democrats. But it is better than the war-based stalemate that the country is in or the United States-led intervention that many are increasingly calling for. 
WASHINGTON — Colin Moran has less than a full season's worth of at-bats in the majors, and just maybe the 26-year-old is becoming one of the game's better pinch hitters.
Moran came off the bench in the 10th inning Friday night and hit a three-run homer, part of five runs Pittsburgh scored off Washington's struggling bullpen, in a 6-3 victory over the Nationals.
Moran's blast to right center off Justin Miller was his second as a pinch hitter in 34 at-bats. His 11 hits in that role tied him for fourth-most in the majors last season. Over his career, he has posted a 1.093 OPS in pinch hitting situations.
"I think maybe I just do a good job of keeping things simple, but I don't know," said Moran, who batted for Jung Ho Kang, after Melky Cabrera and Adam Frazier reached base against lefty Matt Grace (0-1). "You just try and get your A-swing off and see what happens early."
Pittsburgh snapped a four-game losing streak in Washington and spoiled a two-homer night for the Nationals' Anthony Rendon.
Despite a relatively clean performance during a three-game sweep at Philadelphia. Washington relievers entered Friday the worst in the majors. Their ERA grew to 8.12 by game's end.
"We've got to get this one thing ironed out," Nationals manager Dave Martinez said.
Starling Marte hit a two-run single off Kyle Barraclough in the top of the eighth inning that gave the Pirates a 3-2 lead, before Rendon's solo shot in the bottom of the inning tied it.
Cabrera's pinch-hit double led off the 10th. There were runners on second and third after Grace's throwing error on Frazier's comebacker and Starling Marte's grounder to the catcher.
Moran came up, with Josh bell — who homered earlier — on deck.
"When you pinch hit you kind of forget who's hitting behind you, and I saw JB and he's swinging a good bat," Moran said. "I had a good feeling I would get some pitches to hit if I could dial into the strike zone."
Nick Burdi (1-1) worked a scoreless ninth for his first big league win, and Felipe Vazquez pitched the 10th for his fourth save.
"We got some big hits when we needed them," Pirates manager Clint Hurdle said. "We got some nice situations off the mound when we needed to. All in all, a really good game for us."
EXTRA STREAKY
Rendon has six homers after going deep twice for the fifth time in his career. He extended his hitting streak to 11 games and has recorded at least one extra-base hit in the last nine games. In terms of extra-base hits, it's tied for the longest such streak since the club moved to Washington. Ryan Zimmerman had extra-base hits in nine straight games in 2017.
STILL SEARCHING
Patrick Corbin struck out 11 and allowed one run in seven innings in his third start since signing a six-year, $140 million contract with Washington in December. He has yet to earn a decision despite lowering his ERA to 2.84.
"We want to win, obviously," said Corbin. "I think as a starter, if you just keep us in the game, do your job out there, more times than not we're going to come away with wins."
TRAINER'S ROOM
Pirates: OF Gregory Polanco (left shoulder) and RHP Dovydas Neverauskas (left oblique strain) will have their rehabilitation assignments transferred to Triple-A Indianapolis on Saturday. Neverauskas threw two scoreless innings at Class A Bradenton, while Polanco was 2 for 13 there with four walks and an RBI in four games.
Nationals: RHP Max Scherzer (sore right leg) had his next start pushed back a day, to Sunday, because of lingering soreness after he was hit with a line drive in last Sunday at the Mets. ... With Miller's fastball velocity only in the low 90s, Martinez worried the reliever might be hurt. "I'm going to find out," Martinez said. "I don't know what's going on. I'm going to talk to him."
UP NEXT
Pirates: RHP Chris Archer (1-0, 2.45 ERA) makes his first start against Washington since 2015. He has a 2.45 ERA in two career appearances against the Nationals.
Nationals: Right-hander Anibal Sanchez (0-1, 6.52) swaps places with Scherzer. He'll pitching on regular rest after allowing 3 runs over 5 2/3 innings on Monday in Philadelphia.
___
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, has asked the prosecutor who charged him with solicitation of prostitution to turn over “evidence materially favorable” to his case.
The request, made by Mr. Kraft’s lawyers, is the latest salvo in a high-profile fight over two misdemeanors that allege that Mr. Kraft paid for sex in late January at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. While he does not deny being at the massage parlor, Mr. Kraft insists that he did nothing illegal, and that much of the evidence being used against him was improperly obtained by the police.
Mr. Kraft has not accepted a plea deal from the Palm Beach County state attorney, Dave Aronberg, because it would have obligated him to admit that prosecutors would win the case if it went to trial. Since then, his legal team has filed a number of motions to keep private and suppress evidence in the case, including surveillance video of Mr. Kraft inside the massage parlor. Mr. Kraft’s lawyers contend that the police knew that no human trafficking occurred inside the massage parlor, yet told a judge that it was in fact going on as a way to obtain a search warrant and install cameras inside the building.
In a letter sent to Mr. Aronberg on Wednesday, Mr. Kraft’s lawyers asked for information on all people who were secretly recorded inside the massage parlor but who were not charged with a crime. The lawyers also want “all information casting doubt on any claim that those working at the Spa were involved in or victims of human trafficking.”
The letter includes a footnote that says that the state attorney’s office “has already confirmed and conceded that there is no evidence of human trafficking.”
Asked if the state attorney’s office would provide the requested evidence, a spokesman for Mr. Aronberg’s office noted that there was a hearing on the matter on Friday.
Mr. Kraft’s lawyers have asked for the evidence by the end of Friday.
On Friday, the two sides will also discuss a motion filed by news media companies, including The New York Times, to oppose Mr. Kraft’s request that video surveillance footage and other evidence be kept private.
The Mexican crime lord known as El Chapo was convicted on Tuesday after a three-month drug trial in New York that exposed the inner workings of his sprawling cartel, which over decades shipped tons of drugs into the United States and plagued Mexico with relentless bloodshed and corruption.
The guilty verdict against the kingpin, whose real name is Joaquín Guzmán Loera, ended the career of a legendary outlaw who also served as a dark folk hero in Mexico, notorious for his innovative smuggling tactics, his violence against competitors, his storied prison breaks and his nearly unstoppable ability to evade the Mexican authorities.
As Judge Brian M. Cogan read the jury’s charge sheet in open court — 10 straight guilty verdicts on all 10 counts of the indictment — Mr. Guzmán sat listening to a translator, looking stunned. When the reading of the verdict was complete, Mr. Guzmán leaned back to glance at his wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro, who flashed him a thumbs up with tears in her eyes.
The jury’s decision came more than a week after the panel started deliberations at the trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn where prosecutors presented a mountain of evidence against the cartel leader, including testimony from 56 witnesses, 14 of whom once worked with Mr. Guzmán.
Mr. Guzmán now faces life in prison at his sentencing hearing, scheduled for June 25.
[Here’s what’s next for El Chapo after he was found guilty.]
Speaking to reporters outside the courthouse, Richard P. Donoghue, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, called the guilty verdict a victory for law enforcement; for Mexico, where 100,000 people had died because of drug violence; and for families who had lost someone to the “black hole of addiction.”
“There are those who say the war on drugs is not worth fighting,” Mr. Donoghue added. “Those people are wrong.”
In their own news conference, Mr. Guzmán’s lawyers promised an appeal, saying they would focus on the extradition process that brought the kingpin to Brooklyn for trial and on the prosecution’s efforts to restrict their cross-examinations of witnesses. They said that Mr. Guzmán had expected the guilty verdict and was prepared for it.
“I’ve never faced a case with so many cooperating witnesses and so much evidence,” Jeffrey Lichtman, one of Mr. Guzmán’s lawyers, said. “We did all we could as defense lawyers.”
A. Eduardo Balarezo, another one of Mr. Guzmán’s lawyers, added about his client: “When he came here he was already presumed guilty by everyone, unfortunately. We weren’t just fighting evidence, we were fighting perception.”
Not long after the jury got the case on Feb. 4, Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting United States attorney general, stepped into the courtroom and shook hands with each of the trial prosecutors, wishing them good luck. Over the next several days, the jurors, appearing to scrutinize the government’s evidence, asked to be given thousands of pages of testimony, including — in an unusual move — the full testimonies of six different prosecution witnesses.
Mr. Guzmán’s trial, which took place under intense media scrutiny and tight security from bomb-sniffing dogs, police snipers and federal marshals with radiation sensors, was the first time an American jury heard details about the financing, logistics and bloody history of one of the drug cartels that have long pumped huge amounts of heroin, cocaine, marijuana and synthetic drugs like fentanyl into the United States, earning traffickers billions of dollars.
But despite extensive testimony about private jets filled with cash, bodies burned in bonfires and shocking evidence that Mr. Guzmán and his men often drugged and raped young girls, the case also revealed the operatic, even absurd, nature of cartel culture. It featured accounts of traffickers taking target practice with a bazooka, a mariachi playing all night outside a jail cell and a murder plot involving a cyanide-laced arepa.
At times, the trial was so bizarre it felt like a drug-world telenovela unfolding live in the courtroom. Last month, one of Mr. Guzmán’s mistresses tearfully proclaimed her love for him even as she testified against him. The following day, in what seemed like a coordinated show of solidarity, the kingpin and his wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro, appeared in court in matching red velvet smoking jackets.
Toward the end of the proceeding, Alejandro Edda, an actor who plays El Chapo on the Netflix series “Narcos: Mexico,” showed up at the trial to study Mr. Guzmán. The crime lord flashed an ecstatic smile when told Mr. Edda had come to see him.
Although Tuesday’s conviction dealt a blow to the Sinaloa drug cartel, which Mr. Guzmán, 61, helped to run for decades, the group continues to operate, led in part by the kingpin’s sons. In 2016 and 2017, the years when Mr. Guzmán was arrested for a final time and sent for prosecution to New York, Mexican heroin production increased by 37 percent and fentanyl seizures at the southwest border more than doubled, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration.
The D.E.A., in its most recent assessment of the drug trade, noted that Mr. Guzmán’s organization and a rising power, the Jalisco New Generation cartel, “remain the greatest criminal drug threat” to the United States.
The Mexican authorities began pursuing the stocky crime lord — whose nickname translates roughly to “Shorty” — in 1993 when he was blamed for a killing that epitomized for many Mexicans the extreme violence of the country’s drug wars: the assassination of the Roman Catholic cardinal Juan Jesús Posadas Ocampo at the Guadalajara airport.
Though Mr. Guzmán was convicted that same year on charges of murdering the cardinal, he escaped from prison in 2001 — in a laundry cart pushed by a jailhouse janitor — and spent the next decade either on the lam in one of his mountain hide-outs or slipping through various police and military dragnets.
In 2012, he evaded capture by the F.B.I. and the Mexican federal police by ducking out the back door of his oceanview mansion in Los Cabos into a patch of thorn bushes. Two years later, after he was recaptured in a hotel in Mazatlán by the D.E.A. and the Mexican marines, he escaped from prison again — this time, through a lighted, ventilated, mile-long tunnel dug into the shower of his cell.
But following his last arrest — after a gunfight in Los Mochis, Mexico, in 2016 — Mr. Guzmán was extradited to Brooklyn, where federal prosecutors had initially indicted him in 2009. He also faced indictment in six other American judicial districts.
The top charge of the Brooklyn indictment named Mr. Guzmán as a principal leader of a “continuing criminal enterprise” to purchase drugs from suppliers in Colombia, Ecuador, Panama and Mexico’s Golden Triangle — an area including the states of Sinaloa, Durango and Chihuahua where most of the country’s heroin and marijuana are produced.
It also accused him of earning a jaw-dropping $14 billion during his career by smuggling up to 200 tons of drugs across the United States border in an array of yachts, speedboats, long-range fishing boats, airplanes, cargo trains, semi-submersible submarines, tractor-trailers filled with frozen meat and cans of jalapeños and yet another tunnel (hidden under a pool table in Agua Prieta, Mexico.)
The prosecution was years in the making and Mr. Guzmán’s trial drew upon investigative work by the F.B.I., the D.E.A., the United States Coast Guard, Homeland Security Investigations and federal prosecutors in Chicago, Miami, San Diego, Washington, New York and El Paso. The trial team also relied on scores of local American police officers and the authorities in Ecuador, Colombia and the Dominican Republic.
The evidence presented at the trial included dozens of surveillance photos, three sets of detailed drug ledgers, several of the defendant’s handwritten letters and hundreds of his most intimate — and incriminating — phone calls and text messages intercepted through four separate wiretap operations.
Prosecutors used all of this to trace Mr. Guzmán’s 30-year rise from a young, ambitious trafficker with a knack for speedy smuggling to a billionaire narco lord with an entourage of maids and secretaries, a portfolio of vacation homes — even a ranch with a personal zoo.
Andrea Goldbarg, an assistant United States attorney, called the prosecution’s case “an avalanche” during the government’s summations. Even with the help of a PowerPoint presentation, complete with a slide show of photos of the kingpin, Ms. Goldbarg took almost an entire day to lead the jury through it.
But the centerpiece of the government’s offering was testimony from a Shakespearean cast of cooperating witnesses who took the stand to spill the deepest secrets of Mr. Guzmán’s personal and professional lives.
Among the witnesses were the kingpin’s first employee; one of his personal secretaries; his chief Colombian cocaine supplier; the son of his closest partner and heir apparent to his empire; his I.T. expert; his top American distributor; a killer in his army of assassins; even the young mistress with whom he escaped from the Mexican marines, naked, through a tunnel that was hidden under a bathtub in his safe house.
Confronting this onslaught, Mr. Guzmán’s lawyers offered little in the way of an affirmative defense, opting instead to use cross-examination to attack the credibility of the witnesses, most of whom were seasoned criminals with their own long histories of lying, cheating, drug dealing and killing.
Late last month, there was frenzied speculation that Mr. Guzmán might testify in his own defense. But after he decided against doing so, the entire defense case lasted only 30 minutes — compared with 10 weeks for the prosecution — and consisted of a single witness and a stipulation read into the record.
In his closing argument, Mr. Lichtman, one of the defense lawyers, reprised a theme he first introduced during his opening statement in November, telling jurors that the real mastermind of the cartel was Mr. Guzmán’s closest partner, Ismael Zambada García.
Despite being sought by the police in Mexico for nearly 50 years, Mr. Zambada, known as El Mayo, has never been arrested. Mr. Lichtman said the reason was that Mr. Zambada had bribed virtually the entire Mexican government. Mr. Guzmán was merely “the rabbit” that the authorities chased for decades, deflecting attention from his partner, Mr. Lichtman said.
Witness after witness took the stand at the trial and talked about paying off nearly every level of the Mexican police, military and political establishment — including the shocking allegation that Mr. Guzmán gave a $100 million bribe to the country’s former president, Enrique Peña Nieto, in the run-up to Mexico’s 2012 elections.
There was also testimony that bribes were paid to Genaro García Luna, one of Mexico’s top former law enforcement officers, a host of Mexican generals and police officials, and almost the entire congress of Colombia.
“One of the important things about this conviction is that it sends a resounding message,” Ángel Meléndez, special agent in charge for Homeland Security Investigations, said of other drug traffickers. “You’re not unreachable, you’re not untouchable and your day will come.”
Send questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.
The new I.T. director at my large, international office is a rude, condescending jerk. We’ve been through years without any I.T. leadership — the previous ones quit or disappeared — so our infrastructure has run amok, and he has a big job to do.
But he lacks serious people skills, at least around me. In conference calls, he has openly accused me of various transgressions, like how my large files are supposedly causing backup problems. He laughs at my serious comments or questions. And he has threatened to delete my folders or charge me an outrageous cost to put it in the cloud. I have told his staff how unpleasant this is for me, but they shrugged it off.
What do I tell H.R. — that he’s just a lout? I suspect upper management doesn’t want anyone rocking the boat after years of I.T. chaos. The problem is, this guy wields huge power over my work and data. If I don’t have I.T., I might as well just go home and do analyses with my calculator.
This is why they call them information technology pirates.
Actually, no one calls them information technology pirates, but I do, because good ones — as you have discovered the hard way — are difficult to find on the open corporate seas, and can be wont to hold you, or at least your data, hostage. This is because everyone needs an I.T. pirate, and the demand is growing every day, what with China stealing everything in sight from random hotel chains. (They are the I.P. pirates.)
Because look, nothing against information technology pirates, but if you do well in your college computer science classes, what would stop you from becoming a computer programmer pirate? Those pirate jobs pay better and people such as yourself don’t go around treating computer programmer pirates like back-office drones. In a way, I can’t really blame your I.T. pirate for trying to take ransom on your data.
That said, if you want to have an easier time with your I.T. pirate, I might try talking to him honestly and one-on-one. Reporting someone’s abrasive personality to H.R. can backfire badly. Say you understand it’s hard to be an I.T. pirate, but that you cannot do your job without I.T. The worst thing that can happen is he acts the way he always acts, and you wish that you could make him walk the plank.
If you can’t bear the thought of any of this, you might also seek out one of the I.T. pirate’s more competent direct reports and ask this nice person to assist you with your projects.
Arrr.
I am a 64-year-old software engineer who was forced to change jobs because of a layoff. I was with my previous employer for several years and had hoped to retire from there when I turn 65 at the end of this year.
Fortunately, I received and accepted an offer for a position at a new company. I am working with several friends and colleagues I have known for many years, and I believe that their advocacy was a big reason I was given the job. I considered this a true blessing, as I had been unsuccessful in interviews with a few other companies.
But I still plan on retiring at 65.
Is there an ethical imperative for me to give my new employer a heads-up about my plan? If so, how much notice do you think I should give? Should I feel guilty about the fact my friends helped secure me the position?
You have no need to worry. Unless they asked you explicitly in the interviews or when they extended you the offer that you commit to a particular duration of employment, you can retire at whatever point you like.
The reason employers tend not to like short tenures is because they want to amortize the hassle of hiring, training, and everything else that goes into bringing a new employee on board. The fact that you are highly experienced and already comfortable with so many of your colleagues ameliorates this issue to some degree. There is also the possibility — common with employees at the end of their careers — that you keep working in some capacity for this company as a consultant.
I am not sure from your question whether you plan on taking on part-time or contract work once you retire, but if you want to make yourself feel a little less guilty when you quit, include in your resignation letter a sentence or two offering to freelance. Benefits typically add about 30 percent to the cost of a salaried employee. If you end up working for this company part-time after a year or so in-house, this might be an even better deal for the company than they had bargained for originally. It might even qualify as “a win-win”!
As for notice: Ideally, you want to give them as much as they would need to find and train your replacement. A month would be a nice amount.
I’m middle-aged in a youth-dominated technical industry and beyond burned out. A few months back, I went to H.R. to explore alternatives to full-time, in-office work. There were none, and during the conversation I hinted I was thinking of leaving. Mistake. I was naïvely under the impression that H.R. people were like lawyers and bound by silence — but soon after, word came down from above asking me “when I was planning to leave.”
I gave them a date, because I’d decided to leave by that point, but part of me feels hard done by. I’ve put in some good years, but as soon as I asked for help — or, it seems, showed my lack of company devotion — I was basically shown the door.
Should I stick around and force them to fire me, as all my friends counsel? I say forget it, I’m done. But some bitterness remains.
If you see some way to get severance out of this, I say take it, even if you have to sacrifice a little of your self-respect. This is because they have already belittled you, so why not get some compensation for your troubles? Also, for most established companies, an ounce of severance is worth a pound of lawsuits. Or something like that.
Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com. Arrrr.
BARCELONA, Spain — A spokesman for a Spanish court says Venezuela's former spy chief has refused to be extradited to the United States on a drug warrant.
The spokesman, who isn't authorized to be identified by name in the media, says retired Venezuelan Maj. Gen. Hugo Carvajal on Saturday denied links to drug trafficking when he appeared before a Spanish judge in Madrid.
The judge ruled that Carvajal should be kept in custody while a U.S. extradition request for him is considered by a court.
Prosecutors in New York allege in an indictment that Carvajal used his high office to coordinate the smuggling of some 5,600 kilograms of cocaine from Venezuela to Mexico in 2006.
Talks have broken down between Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, and prosecutors in Florida, who have offered to drop the misdemeanor charges against him if he will admit that he would have been found guilty at trial on charges of soliciting prostitution.
Mr. Kraft and prosecutors have been negotiating over the terms of an agreement since Tuesday, when the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered the deal to him and 24 other men who were similarly accused of soliciting prostitution at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. called the Orchids of Asia Day Spa.
But Mr. Kraft and many of the other men are unwilling to admit guilt because they believe that the police have mishandled aspects of the case. They contend that a search warrant was improperly obtained to install secret cameras inside the massage parlor that police say includes video of Mr. Kraft and the other men soliciting sex. The pretext for that warrant was predicated on the existence of human trafficking at that massage parlor, something the police have not yet proven.
“We have looked into it, we’ve looked at the charges brought, looked at the evidence, and there is zero evidence of human trafficking,” said William Burck, one of Mr. Kraft’s attorneys. Mr. Kraft is “being defamed and smeared by anyone who says he’s involved in human trafficking.”
Michael Edmondson, a spokesman for the state attorney in Palm Beach County, said it would not “be appropriate to comment on an open case.”
Mr. Kraft, by far the most well-known defendant in the group, pleaded not guilty to two first-degree misdemeanor charges at the end of February. The prosecutors said Mr. Kraft, who is accused as a first-time offender, was unlikely to face jail time in this case.
On Tuesday, the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County offered Mr. Kraft and the 24 other accused men a chance to have the charges dropped if they agreed to do 100 hours of community service, take a class on the dangers of prostitution, get tested for sexually transmitted diseases and pay a fine.
But the men would also have to agree that if the case had gone to trial, the prosecutors would have won. This would force them to effectively admit guilt even though they have pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Mr. Burck said Mr. Kraft should not have to say he is guilty in the case because the premise of the search warrant is flawed, and the police improperly stopped the vehicle Mr. Kraft was a passenger in after he left the massage parlor.
“If there was human trafficking, these men would face more than misdemeanors,” he said. “Our view is that the state attorney’s job is to uphold the law, and we think he should be scrutinizing how the search warrant was obtained and traffic stop was done, and explain to us why we’re wrong” to object.
Mr. Burck said he is still in discussions with the state attorney about his offer, but declined to be more specific. Mr. Kraft and the other men can continue negotiating with prosecutors, who may make a counteroffer. Mr. Kraft is scheduled to be arraigned on Thursday.
On Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Kraft and 14 other men filed a motion with the court in Palm Beach County to keep private all the evidence obtained by the police in the case. This includes hidden camera video of Mr. Kraft and the men inside the massage parlor over several days in late January.
In their filing, the lawyers said the evidence should remain confidential. The lawyers suggested that they do not believe that sex trafficking took place at the massage parlor.
Mr. Burck said the state attorney has not agreed to keep the evidence private.
“We don’t know why they wouldn’t want to protect the evidence in the case,” he said. “The images on the video would clearly be of a private nature” and the only reason to make them public would be if “the goal is to embarrass the person on the video.”
Legal experts who handle prostitution cases in Florida said most defendants ultimately accept the prosecutor’s offer because the cost of fighting their cases are not worth the trouble.
But Mr. Kraft may be more concerned that essentially pleading guilty to soliciting prostitution will harm his reputation as an N.F.L. owner, businessman and philanthropist. Mr. Kraft might also be penalized by the N.F.L.’s commissioner, Roger Goodell, who has broad authority to issue fines and suspensions for anyone who damages the league’s brand. The penalties, if any, could be based on the outcome of Mr. Kraft’s legal case in Florida.
If the state attorney does not amend his offer, Mr. Kraft could seek a nonjury trial. That would open him up to more scrutiny, but it would also give him a forum to question how evidence was gathered in the investigation.
According to affidavits released in the case, the police persuaded a judge to allow them to install hidden video cameras because they were investigating whether a sex trafficking ring was operating in about 10 massage parlors in Florida.
Dave Aronberg, the state attorney in Palm Beach County, said last month that there was no evidence that Mr. Kraft and the other men were involved in sex trafficking.
“There is no allegation that any of the defendants were involved with human trafficking; they are not being charged as such,” Mr. Aronberg said on Feb. 25.
Yet the investigation into sex trafficking remains ongoing.
Lawyers familiar with prostitution cases have questioned why the police in Jupiter, if they were investigating sex trafficking, waited months to shut down the Orchids of Asia spa after they suspected that the women working inside might be at risk.
They have also questioned why the police, who had been investigating the massage parlor since October, needed to install video cameras there in late January, when Mr. Kraft allegedly was twice caught on tape getting massages. Those video cameras may have violated the privacy rights of customers who were not accused of soliciting prostitution.
Seven years ago, Elisabeth Malkin, my colleague in Mexico City, and I worked on one of the strangest stories of my career. It involved a consultant from Mount Forest, Ontario, with no previous experience in the Middle East being sent by construction and engineering firm SNC-Lavalin to assess the turmoil in Libya that eventually led to the overthrow of its dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
For $100,000, the consultant, Cynthia Vanier, wrote a five-page report condemning the NATO-led bombing campaign against Colonel Qaddafi’s forces. She wound up in a Mexican jail, charged with trying to smuggle the dictator’s son into that country, and remained there for 18 months.
It was among a series of episodes that exposed widespread corruption at SNC-Lavalin, led to the firing of its top executives (several of whom were arrested) and raised questions about the survival of the company.
Now, of course, SNC-Lavalin’s time with the Qaddafi family is at the heart of a political mess confronting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau just eight months before a federal election.
[Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]
It began over a week ago when The Globe and Mail, citing anonymous sources (subscribers only), reported that when Jody Wilson-Raybould was justice minister, Mr. Trudeau or his aides pressured her to cut a deal that would allow SNC-Lavalin to escape a criminal conviction for bribery in Libya. That was followed this week by the announcement of an investigation by Parliament’s ethics commissioner into Mr. Trudeau’s actions. Then came the abrupt resignation of Ms. Wilson-Raybould from Mr. Trudeau’s cabinet.
Let’s step back for a quick overview of SNC-Lavalin’s troubled history, and where Trudeau’s current problem may lead:
•What is SNC-Lavalin? SNC-Lavalin was formed in 1991 from two Montreal-based companies. It has 52,000 employees in over 160 countries and reported revenue of 9.3 billion Canadian dollars in 2017. Like Bombardier, SNC-Lavalin’s international success remains a source of pride in Quebec, despite the latter’s issues with corruption, and it employs thousands of people there.
•What did it do? The current controversy comes from charges laid by the police four years ago. They accuse the company of paying 47.7 million Canadian dollars in bribes to officials in Libya to win contracts there, and of defrauding the Libyan government and its agencies of 129.8 million Canadian dollars.
But that’s not all. In 2013, the World Bank banned SNC-Lavalin from bidding on contracts for a decade to settle a corruption inquiry into its activities in Bangladesh. An Indian government investigation showed that the company paid bribes there where it built a major hydroelectric dam.
Back home, Pierre Duhaime, SNC-Lavalin’s former chief executive, pleaded guilty this month to charges related to tens of millions of dollars in bribes the company paid to secure the contract to build a hospital complex in Montreal. A public official has pleaded guilty to taking bribes from SNC-Lavalin that landed it the contract to renovate the landmark Jacques-Cartier bridge in Montreal.
•What’s at stake? If convicted in the Libya case, SNC-Lavalin will be banned from federal government contracts for a decade. Such work is a major part of SNC-Lavalin’s business. Without it, the company could be financially crippled or vulnerable to a takeover by a foreign competitor.
•How has it responded? Publicly, the company’s new management claims all bribery and all other forms of lawbreaking are in its past.
Privately, it has heavily lobbied politicians at all levels of government and in all parties. The company was looking for changes to criminal law that would allow it to dodge a conviction by paying a large fine and proving that it now has clean hands — the United States and Britain have similar “remediation agreements.”
While it made no link, the Trudeau government introduced just such a change to the Criminal Code last March, burying it in the hundreds of pages of the federal budget bill.
•What are the allegations against Mr. Trudeau? According to The Globe and Mail, his office improperly pushed Ms. Wilson-Raybould to get federal prosecutors to drop the criminal case and use the new settlement system.
The prosecution service is supposed to do its work free of the influence of politicians. Justice ministers in Canada, in their dual role as attorney general, can give prosecutors orders. But that’s only supposed to happen in exceptional cases and the law requires the government to make those orders public through an official notice.
In the end, however, nothing happened. SNC-Lavalin is still heading to court.
•What’s next? Mr. Trudeau has repeatedly acknowledged that the issue was discussed with his former minister. But he has also insisted that neither he nor his office pressured Ms. Wilson-Raybould, who has yet to give her side of the story, citing solicitor-client privilege.
Whatever turns the political storm takes, John W. Boscariol, a lawyer in Toronto who advises companies on corruption issues, told me this week that the outcome is unlikely to please SNC-Lavalin.
“Now that it’s exploded, it’s going to be difficult for any company to get a remediation agreement,” he said.
On Feb. 24 we’re holding a special conference call for Canadian and Australian readers with David Sanger, national security correspondent for The Times. He’ll be focusing on the pressure the United States is bringing on Canada and other countries to not use equipment from China’s Huawei when they upgrade their wireless networks. You can find all the details and register here.
—The loss of Jody Wilson-Raybould from his cabinet may prove to be a step backward in Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s attempts at reconciliation with Indigenous people.
—In Opinion, columnist Nicholas Kristof recently praised Canada as a model for the world but also said that we’re “boring.” Some Canadian readers get the last word.
—A reader from Vancouver describes his city’s transit system in a global comparison with New York.
—Jack Ming Jie Lin, a native of Markham, Ontario, and now a student at Columbia University in New York, has some things on his mind in addition to his studies. He has a rare opportunity as an amateur tennis player to test himself against the pros.
—Hockey fans in Toronto who are discouraged by the cost and scarcity of Leafs tickets might want to to check out the Toronto Furies of the Canadian Women’s Hockey League.
—Sebastian Modak, Our 52 Places Traveler, is on the move and one of his first stops was the ice caves near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. Our colleagues in Books have put together a list of books for each of his stops. Their Canadian selections are not obvious but clever.
—As The Times’s food editor, Sam Sifton comes up with a lot of terrific recipes. But he has also been on a campaign to get us cooking without glancing at a tablet or a grubby printout. Sam’s non-recipe recipes have now been collected.
—Before computers were machines they were people, more often than not women, who performed calculations. When those tasks were mechanized, women often programmed the machines. Then, somehow, men took over. Clive Thompson looks at what went wrong.
McALLEN, Tex. — When a president comes to town there are two realities, the one the White House hopes to create and the one that actually exists.
President Trump arrived in this city on the Mexican border on Thursday to dramatize his desire for a border wall, a hardened position that has caused the partial shutdown of the federal government.
He surrounded himself with border agents, victims of horrible crimes, a display of methamphetamine and heroin, an AK-47 and an AR-15 rifle, and a trash bag stuffed with $362,062 in cash that had been confiscated by law enforcement officials.
In his view, it all added up to a single word, “crisis,” with a lone solution, building a wall — a point he emphasized in a discussion with the crime victims, law enforcement officers and McAllen residents.
“That says it all,” Mr. Trump said of the contraband. “They didn’t have to go very far. This is all very recent.”
But there was another reality. The display of drugs, weapons and cash was mainly the product of law enforcement actions stopping criminals at international bridges, where most drugs are smuggled, and conventional ports of entry.
In a place where a wall is already in place, law enforcement officials boasted of apprehending criminals who had built a tunnel. The money was taken from a suspect who had overstayed a visa.
In a meeting on Tuesday with network anchors before his prime-time address to the nation, Mr. Trump had dismissed the trip to McAllen as a waste of time, a mere photo op. But he gamely went forward after arriving here early Thursday afternoon.
A few miles south of McAllen, he stood near a bluff above the Rio Grande, with Mexico in the near distance. There were more border agents, an array of military vehicles and a helicopter flyover for effect with agents saluting the commander in chief. The Fox host Sean Hannity stood nearby, waiting for an exclusive interview.
Hundreds of people lined a nearby highway, many waving signs backing Mr. Trump. The border agents who assembled for the meeting also gave him hearty cheers. One supporter was Joe Cantu, a former police chief from a nearby town wearing a Make America Great Again baseball cap and T-shirt.
“They’re coming over in Banzai waves,” Mr. Cantu said of immigrants crossing into Texas.
Other signs told a different story. They said “No Wall, No Hate,” “We Are All Immigrants” and “Our Only Crisis Is Trump’s Failing Presidency.”
On the route from the meeting to the photo op along the Rio Grande, the president’s motorcade also passed numerous product distribution centers, large, low-slung buildings that employ hundreds of people. Those businesses are a product of Nafta, the commercial agreement with Mexico and Canada that Mr. Trump has labeled the worst of all time, but that has transformed South Texas over the last two decades.
The McAllen area is heavily Democratic and the local congressman opposes the wall, as do many local officials. Still, the scene was a draw.
“I just wanted to get a picture,” said Veronica Whitacre, a local city commissioner and McAllen native. “It’s sad for South Texas that people believe we live in a dangerous place. When I go places, people ask where I am from and I say McAllen. And people say, ‘Are you O.K.?’”
The city is certainly O.K. when it comes to crime, which is near a 30-year low. The president did not talk about that. “You’ll have crime in Iowa, you’ll have crime in New Hampshire, you’ll have crime in New York without a wall,” Mr. Trump said.
Mr. Trump did not discuss the significant increase in cases of children being separated from their families as a result of his hard-line immigration policies. He spoke only a few blocks from a detention center, but did not go in. When asked by a reporter if he would visit it, the president said that he would like to, but that it would be up to the Secret Service. He did not go.
He also criticized Democrats who have accused him of trying to manufacture a crisis to justify his $5.7 billion border barrier demand. “What’s manufactured is the word manufactured,” the president said.
Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary who accompanied Mr. Trump to Texas, reiterated the administration’s position that what is happening along the border is a crisis.
Those who claim it was manufactured, she said, “insulted” Americans. To that, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, who joined the president and his entourage, added, “When we see politicians go on TV and say the border’s secure and there is no crisis, they are ignoring reality.”
Not to be outdone, Dan Patrick, the Texas lieutenant governor, added, “To those who say this is a manufactured crisis, it’s a manufactured cover-up by your opposition.”
Democrats have insisted that the administration faces a large-scale humanitarian problem that is a direct result of Mr. Trump’s policy, but argue that a border wall is not the right solution and that Mr. Trump has failed to make the case that there is a true security crisis.
A local pastor sympathetic to the president emphasized during a round-table discussion that the crisis was “humanitarian” in nature.
Still, Mr. Trump said that he had a “feel about things” and could sense Democrats moving toward his position.
“I know you don’t see it yet, but I have a feel about things, and I really believe the other side is starting to get it.”
Representative Vicente Gonzalez, a Democrat whose district includes McAllen, was in Washington while the president visited his hometown. But he closely monitored Mr. Trump’s trip.
“It’s all theatrics,” Mr. Gonzalez said in an interview, before insisting that Mr. Trump was somehow trying to escape the government shutdown with a victory.
Mr. Gonzalez added: “He’s trying to land the plane, and I think he knows time is not on his side. So he came down to the border to try to make a final case.”
MINNEAPOLIS — Virginia pulled off one of the great redemption stories in NCAA Tournament history, winning its first national title a year after losing to a No. 16 seed in the first round.
The bad news: it's seven months until the next season.
The confetti is still being swept up in Minnesota, but it's never too early to start looking ahead for college basketball fans.
OK, maybe it is a little too early, but we're going to do it anyway.
A look at a way-too-early poll for the 2019-20 season:
1. Michigan State. The Spartans made it to the Final Four without Joshua Langford. He should be healthy and nearly everyone should be back.
2. Virginia. De'Andre Hunter is a projected NBA lottery pick, so he's likely be gone. If Ty Jerome returns, the Cavaliers could be in the running for a second straight title.
3. Kentucky. Another year, another big roster turnover. Then again, Coach John Calipari has another stellar recruiting class coming in.
4. Michigan. The Wolverines were not supposed be this good this year. Even with Charles Matthews likely leaving, they're expected to be good in 2019-20 if no one else leaves.
5. Duke. Zion, R.J. and Cam will not be back. Tre Jones is, so the Blue Devils should be in good shape with another top-notch recruiting class coming to Durham.
6. Marquette. Ranking the Golden Eagles this high is all about Markus Howard. He doesn't come back, they drop several spots.
7. Gonzaga. Rui Hachimura may leave Spokane early, but if Brandon Clarke doesn't, watch out for the Zags.
8. Oregon. No Bol Bol (likely), but Payton Pritchard, Louis King (maybe) and a strong recruiting class is going to be tough to beat.
9. Kansas. The Lawson brothers are gone, but getting the big Doke back is huge for the Jayhawks.
10. Maryland. Losing Bruno Fernando would hurt, but there's a lot coming back.
11. Ohio State. The starting backcourt graduates, but there are plenty of good young players to step up.
12. Texas Tech. Losing Jarrett Culver, Matt Mooney and Tariq Owens hurts, but never count out Chris Beard after leading his host of grinders to the national title game.
13. Louisville. Leading scorer Jordan Nwora could be off to the NBA, but Chris Mack is already pulling the recruiting strings.
14. Arizona. Sean Miller regained his recruiting prowess with another stellar group coming in, though the federal investigation still hangs over the program.
15. Villanova. The loss of Eric Paschal and Phil Booth puts a big dent in the Wildcats' leadership, but Jay Wright has dipped into the five-star recruiting pool with one of the nation's top classes.
16. LSU. Another team caught up in the federal recruiting investigation. The Tigers have plenty coming back, though, particularly if point guard Tremont Waters stays.
17. Florida State. Mfiondu Kabengele and a pair of top recruits should help make up for the losses of five seniors.
18. North Carolina. The Tar Heels will have a massive roster turnover, but Ol' Roy should have high-quality replacements for them.
19. Tennessee. Grant Williams and Jordan Bone returning could make the Vols a top-10 team. They'll be solid even if both leave.
20. Arizona State. The Sun Devils may lose Luguentz Dort and Zylan Cheatham graduates, but nearly everyone else should be back from an NCAA Tournament team.
21. Auburn. A healthy Chuma Okeke and getting Jared Harper back could lead to another deep Tigers' run.
22. Seton Hall. The Pirates have plenty coming back and Myles Powell would make them a top 25 team.
23. Saint Mary's. The Gaels get nearly everyone back from its tournament team.
24. Iowa. This could be Fran McCaffrey's best team in Ames.
25. Purdue. Losing Carsen Edwards to an early exit makes the Boilermakers much less dangerous.
___
BEIRUT, Lebanon — As American-backed forces assault the final bastion of the Islamic State in Syria, two American children may be stuck inside, their father fears.
“I am praying to my God that they will return to me,” said the father, Bashirul Shikder. “They are innocent. I am just hoping.”
Four years ago, his wife fled their Florida home to join the Islamic State and took their two children with her. She was killed in an airstrike, but the children are believed to be in Baghuz, the last village held by the Islamic State in Syria.
[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]
As the yearslong battle to destroy the Islamic State’s so-called caliphate draws to an end, Western governments have struggled to deal with citizens who joined the terrorist organization. The family of Shamima Begum, who left for Syria as a teenager, has said the British government intends to revoke her citizenship, and President Trump has vowed not to let Hoda Muthana, an American-born woman, return to the United States.
But Mr. Shikder’s ordeal raises the question of what happens to children who ended up in the Islamic State through no fault of their own.
Mr. Shikder, 38, told his story in phone calls from Iraq and Florida, and two lawyers involved in his case corroborated his account.
“Mr. Shikder is a religious Muslim, but he is also very much an American,” said Charles D. Swift, the director of the Constitutional Law Center for Muslims in America, who is helping Mr. Shikder. “He believes in America and in the ideals of America.”
Born in Bangladesh, Mr. Shikder moved to Canada as a young man, before immigrating to the United States and becoming a citizen a decade ago. He married a Bangladeshi-born American woman, Rashida Sumaiya, and had two children, Yusuf, a boy, and Zahra, a girl.
They lived near Miami, where he works in information technology, he said. He and his wife liked to play chess and badminton and hold barbecues in Miami Beach.
But his life was upended in March 2015, when he left for a pilgrimage to Mecca. His wife was supposed to take the children to visit her parents in Orlando, he said. But when she stopped responding to his texts, he began to worry.
After days of silence, he reached her parents, who said she and the children were gone, but refused to say more, he said. So he contacted the F.B.I. and returned to Florida, learning that his wife, their children, then 4 and 10 months old, and his wife’s sister, had flown to Turkey to cross into Syria to join the Islamic State.
A few weeks later, he received a call from Syria while he was driving on the freeway, he said. A man with a British accent asked him whether he was the father of Yusuf and Zahra. Mr. Shikder said yes and asked where they were.
“In the Islamic State,” he said the man told him.
He gave Mr. Shikder one month to join them in Syria or said his wife and children would be taken away from him.
About a week later, his wife called and told him how she, her sister, and their children had been smuggled into Syria and had their passports taken away, he said. That was the start of an intermittent and painful correspondence between him, his wife, her sister and other members of the Islamic State.
Sometimes his wife sent him videos of his children playing and put them on the phone, he said. But he never knew whether they were in danger.
“Many times I was very worried because I was seeing fighting, I was seeing airstrikes, I was seeing Assad’s soldiers,” he said, referring to Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad. “I was seeing people being killed.”
Later, he received messages asking him to send money or telling him to join the family in Syria, appeals he was not sure were from his wife or from someone else using her phone, he said. He refused to send money, having been advised that it could violate the American law against providing material support to a terrorist group.
In 2016, he received a document from an Islamic State court divorcing him from his wife. The document said his wife had asked for a divorce because Mr. Shikder lived in “the land of disbelief (America),” had refused to move to the Islamic State and had not sent money to his wife.
He later learned that his wife had remarried and given birth to a daughter, and sometime later that her new husband had been killed, he said.
He last spoke to Rashida in December, he said. He told her that her father had died in the United States, and she spoke of a nearby airstrike that had terrified the children. In January, his sister-in-law told him that his wife had been killed in an airstrike and that the three children had been burned in the blast.
The sister-in-law got in touch one more time, on Feb. 4, and said the children’s wounds were healing, Mr. Shikder said. That was the last he heard from her.
Last month, Mr. Shikder received word that his children had been found in a refugee camp in eastern Syria, so he flew to northern Iraq, intending to cross the border to retrieve them. But it turned out to be a false report, so he returned to Florida last week.
Clive Stafford Smith, a British human rights lawyer who is helping Mr. Shikder, says he has confirmed, through contacts he has with people whose relatives are in the village, that the children are alive and in Baghuz, in the care of a British woman who is reluctant to surrender.
Mr. Shikder is an observant Muslim who does not drink or smoke, prays regularly and wears a long black beard with a trim mustache. His own faith compounded his horror at the jihadists’ actions, he said.
“I do everything that Islam tells you to do, but my Islam did not tell me to do what they did,” he said.
He said he struggled to determine how much his wife had embraced their message.
“Sometimes I was feeling that she was stuck,” he said. “Sometimes I was feeling that she was believing what she was doing.”
Yusuf is now 8, Zahra is 4, and his wife’s other daughter, Safyah, is about 18 months old. His lawyers believe that she can claim American citizenship through her mother, and Mr. Shikder has offered to adopt her.
But it remains unclear whether the children will make it out of Syria.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Shikder have contacted American diplomats, law enforcement agents and members of the American-backed Syrian Democratic Forces that have surrounded Baghuz, hoping to secure safe passage for the children, Mr. Smith said.
Heather Fabrikant, a spokeswoman for the United States Consulate in Erbil, Iraq, said the State Department was “aware of reports of an international parental child abduction case in which U.S. citizen children were taken to Syria in 2015” but that she could not discuss details because of privacy considerations.
On Monday, Mustafa Bali, a spokesman for the Syrian Democratic Forces, wrote on Twitter that they had slowed down the offensive on Baghuz “due to a small number of civilians held as human shields” by the Islamic State. “However, we assert that the battle to retake the last ISIS holdout is going to be over soon.”
As he waits, Mr. Shikder prays, and tries to stay hopeful that his children will be saved.
“Everything is making me worried,” he said.
WASHINGTON — At 23, Elizabeth Pipko has branded herself on social media as a onetime figure skater, a part-time poet and a former Trump campaign aide, an Instagramista whose feed spotlights her Mar-a-Lago wedding and racy swimsuit and lingerie modeling shots.
But when President Trump latched onto Ms. Pipko’s concept of a “Jexodus” — a fledgling, and some would say crass, effort by Republicans to woo Jews away from the Democratic Party — even Democratic leaders found themselves defensively responding to a young woman they did not know existed a month ago.
The rise of Ms. Pipko and the notion of a Jexodus — there is no evidence that any such thing is occurring — is an object lesson in how an idea can migrate from a no-name messenger to the broad body politic, through the organ of Fox News and the megaphone of the president’s Twitter account.
“We left Egypt, and now we’re leaving the Democratic Party,” Ms. Pipko declared last week on “Fox & Friends,” the president’s favorite television program, prompting a flurry of tweets about Jexodus from Mr. Trump, and an angry retort from Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader.
About that exodus: Some 79 percent of Jews voted for Democrats in last year’s midterm elections, according to exit polling data, up from the 71 percent who voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and the 69 percent who voted for Barack Obama in 2012. And Jews take a dim view of Mr. Trump, according to a 2018 Gallup poll that found that just 26 percent of Jews approved of the president’s performance, the lowest of any major religious group.
And about that name, Jexodus. “Obviously, it’s a play on Exodus,” Ms. Pipko said on Fox. (There was, of course, an Exodus in the Bible. It involved Jews. So why the J? Is the next step renaming Passover as “Jassover”?)
“The Exodus is the most important master class in redemption in human history, and it is the ground for why we care about all those who are oppressed by slavery,” said Rabbi Jonah Pesner, the director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism. “To crush that redemptive narrative into the crucible of partisan politics, I find very troubling.”
The Palestinian-American writer Yousef Munayyer took a lighter view. “Jexodus,” he said, reminded him of “a bad Weird Al Yankovic parody” of Bob Marley: “Movement of Jah people.”
Jexodus may have gotten the hint on the name. On Thursday, its leaders announced that they were rebranding it “the Exodus Movement,” an initiative of Red Sea Rising, incorporated by Ms. Pipko as a tax-exempt “social welfare” organization. On Wednesday afternoon, the Jexodus.org website was taken down; a new one, TheExodusMovement.com, went live on Thursday.
But on the mission, Ms. Pipko said she was undeterred. “We’re obviously super-realistic and aware that overwhelmingly, the Jewish people have supported Democrats over the years,” Ms. Pipko said in an interview, though she added, “I love a challenge.”
In a strategy memo shared with The New York Times, she wrote that she intended to use “extensive microtargeting” to find “persuadable Jews” in eight states — Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, Michigan and Minnesota — where Jews make up more than 2 percent of the vote in a total of 31 House districts.
The effort comes at a fraught moment for Israel supporters in the Democratic Party. Two freshman Democrats — Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan — embrace the boycott-Israel movement and have been fending off charges of anti-Semitism for weeks. The Republican National Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have streamed out a barrage of news releases accusing Democrats of anti-Semitism or coddling anti-Semites.
A New York native and granddaughter of Marc Klionsky, a Russian-born Jewish painter, Ms. Pipko — who was described on the Jexodus website as an “international model, Trump 2016 campaign staffer, poet, patriot and fiercely proud millennial Jew” — is not new to media attention.
A 2015 Esquire article about her said she “took a year off from minoring in mathematics at Harvard to train for the Olympics in figure skating,” though her LinkedIn profile notes that she attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard College, and her skating career was derailed, she said Wednesday, by an injury when she was 15. Her poetry books — “Sweet 16” and “About You” — were self-published: “Her skin was luscious, peachy clean. Her eyes a chocolate brown. Her smile full of life. The envy of her town.”
While Ms. Pipko is the public face of Jexodus, the idea originated with Jeff Ballabon, an adviser to the 2016 Trump campaign and self-described “very traditionally observant Jew” who said he was deeply disturbed by the rising tide of anti-Israel sentiment on the progressive left.
In an email, he said he came up with “Jexodus” as a “rallying cry” to help make it “O.K. for Jews to be proudly independent or Republican or even active Trump supporters.” And he lamented “the nightmare we have now where a major party believes it has a lock on the Jews and so is free to court Jew haters.”
He announced the new group at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington this month, along with Sebastian Gorka — a former Trump White House official who has been accused of a decades-old alignment with Nazi groups in his native Hungary.
“CPAC attendees: check out the awesome #JEXODUS swag & tweet pics wearing it!” Mr. Ballabon wrote on Twitter.
Mr. Gorka declined to be interviewed. “I will not assist a publication clearly dedicated to a monomaniacal political agenda of undermining the duly elected president of the United States,” he said in an email.
Jexodus, now the Exodus Movement, is making its debut just days before 18,000 people — including Vice President Mike Pence, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and top congressional leaders — are to gather in Washington for the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying behemoth.
Mr. Trump, despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes, is clearly trying to exploit the moment. “There is anti-Semitism in the Democratic Party,” he wrote on Twitter last week, quoting Ms. Pipko’s Fox appearance.
That raised the hackles not only of Democrats, but of the foreign policy establishment.
“The deployment of Jexodus is vintage Trump,” said Aaron David Miller, Middle East program director at the Wilson Center, a foreign affairs research organization, “a cynical, Twitter-friendly conceit designed to undermine bipartisanship — critically important to a healthy U.S.-Israeli relationship — by trying to establish the Republican Party as the go-to party on Israel and in the process tar the Democrats with labels that run from anti-Israel to anti-Jewish.”
On Friday, Mr. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, shot back. “Exploiting anti-Semitism for partisan advantage is dangerous and wrong,” he said. “It is misleading on the facts, destructive to the critical bipartisan support that Israel has always enjoyed and that has been so important to its security and success, and a risk to the unity of our country.”
Ms. Pipko insists she simply wants to educate people. She has “kind of said goodbye” to modeling — “I think I’m moving past it,” she said — though given her unusual résumé and her very much active Instagram account she seems to expect that people will doubt her.
“I can’t blame them,” she said. “There’s a lot that I’ve done that’s very far from politics. I’m also 23 years old. I’m very O.K. with having to prove myself, and I’m excited to show people that I am very serious.”
McALLEN, Tex. — The former president of Mexico was accused of taking a $100 million bribe from El Chapo. A former sheriff in South Texas took far less from El Gallo — about $100,000.
El Gallo — Tomas Reyes Gonzalez, a drug trafficker now in federal prison — supplied the cash to the former Hidalgo County sheriff, Guadalupe Trevino, for his re-election campaign. Another former Hidalgo County sheriff took bribes to allow a convicted drug dealer to have conjugal visits at the county jail, including in the jail library and in the sheriff’s private office. Yet another former sheriff in neighboring Cameron County protected and assisted cocaine dealers, and is now Federal Inmate No. 51689-179.
The corruption that took down those three border sheriffs in 1994, 2005 and 2014 continues today. Next month, the former police chief in the town of La Joya is scheduled to go on trial, after he was indicted on drug charges and accused by federal authorities of helping a drug-trafficking organization transport narcotics while working as a police sergeant in Progreso, Tex.
The much-watched trial of the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo — whose real name is Joaquín Guzmán Loera and who was convicted last week in a New York courtroom — shed light on the hold that drug traffickers and their money have on the police and politicians in Mexico. One witness at Mr. Guzmán’s trial testified that the Mexican president had taken a $100 million bribe in exchange for calling off a nationwide manhunt for the drug kingpin.
But corruption and drug money flow on the United States side of the border as well. Mr. Trevino and the other imprisoned former lawmen in South Texas are but a sampling. More than 100 local, state and federal law enforcement officials have been indicted on drug-related corruption charges on America’s southwest border since the 1990s. In just one agency, the Border Patrol, officials said 77 employees were arrested or indicted on corruption charges in the fiscal years from 2005 to 2017.
“The money can be an extremely tempting thing,” said Kenneth Magidson, who served as the top federal prosecutor in South Texas from 2011 to 2017 as the United States attorney in Houston and whose office prosecuted Mr. Trevino and other former law enforcement officials. “It’s hard to say no.”
Mr. Trevino had built a decades-long career in law enforcement; his son is a former Mission, Tex., police officer now in federal prison for his role in a corrupt antidrug task force. Mr. Trevino, now 69, returned to his hometown, McAllen, after he was officially released from federal custody last month, but politely declined to comment. “I don’t want to relive any of that stuff,” he said.
In the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, drug money has a muted yet undeniable presence. It is evident not just in the corruption scandals, but in everyday life, as the illicit profits of the drug trade fuel both legitimate commerce and the underground economy. Drug dealers and their relatives and associates come to the Valley to buy luxury vehicles, build heavily secured mansions, enjoy the night life in the cities of McAllen and Brownsville and gamble for cash in the popular but illegal slot-machine casinos.
W. F. Strong, a professor of communication at the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley in Brownsville and a 30-year resident of the area, called drug money the WD-40 of the Valley. “It’s the oil that makes the machinery work, in all kinds of ways that we don’t fully understand,” Professor Strong said.
No one knows exactly how much of that oil is lubricating the economy.
“There is an underground economy that’s fueled by drug proceeds,” said Will R. Glaspy, the special agent in charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration’s Houston division, which includes the Rio Grande Valley. “You see drug money that’s being utilized to start businesses, prop businesses up. You have legitimate businesses that are unknowingly being supported by illegal drug money. I can’t put a dollar figure on it, and I won’t limit it to just the Rio Grande Valley. It happens in Houston. It happens in San Antonio. It happens in a lot of our border communities.”
Such activity does not lead to cartel gun battles in parking lots or random street violence. Valley residents over all feel safe, and are safe, as they enjoy the year-round sunshine beneath wind-tussled palm trees in low-crime cities. McAllen had zero murders in 2018, down from seven in 2017. Brownsville had two homicides in 2018, down from six in 2017.
Brownsville’s congressman, Representative Filemon B. Vela Jr., is so unconcerned about theft that he keeps his keys in his vehicle. To prove his point, after a recent interview at a cafe near the federal courthouse that bears his father’s name, Mr. Vela walked to the parking lot, opened the door of his minivan and showed off the keys, on a tray next to the cup holders.
Many residents and officials hesitate to even discuss the presence of drug money, fearing it will perpetuate the false narrative that border cities are chaotic, violent places, an image that is a source of great frustration to many local residents. They said the public corruption in Texas border cities was no different from the public corruption elsewhere around the country.
“Obviously, we have a lot of issues along the border dealing with drug money and attempted bribery of many law enforcement, from our sheriffs to some of our Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement, but that also happens in Chicago and New York and a lot of other places,” said State Senator Juan Hinojosa, a Democrat whose district includes Mission and other border towns. “It’s not unique to the Valley, but we’re right on the border, so there’s more of a focus on it.”
When Mr. Hinojosa worked as a lawyer in McAllen decades ago, he represented drug dealers who were fighting their charges in court. He had only a few cases, he said.
“Back in the early ’80s and the ’70s, it was different in the sense that a lot of the defendants in criminal drug cases would pay cash,” Mr. Hinojosa said. “I cannot verify, but I’ve heard attorneys who were offered $50,000, $60,000, $80,000 cash,” he said. “I think law enforcement has really clamped down, not only on drug smuggling but the Wild West culture that used to exist.”
The influence of the drug trade runs just under the surface of Valley life. People sometimes brush up against it unexpectedly.
One March night last year at the Sky Sportsbar and Lounge in Brownsville, the evening was winding down when a young man suddenly pulled out a handgun, told everyone he was a United States marshal and ordered the patrons to leave or face arrest. On his neck was a gold Cameron County District Attorney’s Office badge.
The young man, it turns out, was neither a marshal nor a prosecutor. He was the son of the former head of Mexico’s Gulf cartel. Osiel Cardenas Jr., 26, was arrested that night after officers found him, intoxicated, in the parking lot.
“That’s kind of one of those surreal moments,” said Agent Glaspy of the D.E.A.
Mr. Cardenas’s father was sentenced in 2010 to 25 years in a federal prison in Colorado known as the Alcatraz of the Rockies (the same one where El Chapo is likely to be sent).
In Brownsville, Mr. Cardenas was convicted of a firearms charge and impersonating a marshal. A former Sky bar employee said business noticeably dropped in the aftermath of the incident. But that was months ago. Lately, business has bounced back.
As President Trump declared a national emergency on Friday to bypass Congress and build his long-promised wall, he again painted a portrait of a lawless, chaotic border and cited arguments about the effectiveness of the kind of barrier he has in mind that were not rooted in facts.
Illegal border crossings have been declining for decades. While families are overwhelming an immigration system devised to handle single men, a border wall would not prevent them from seeking asylum, which is legal. Research does not show that immigrants commit more crimes than native-born Americans. And a wall would do little to prevent drugs and human trafficking at the border, as official ports of entry are the main route into the United States for both.
Cumulatively, Mr. Trump’s unsupported or misleading statements undercut his rationale for declaring an emergency, a step that is widely viewed as testing both constitutional and political norms and is sure to draw legal challenges. 
Mr. Trump is correct that there were 23 murders in El Paso last year, compared with more than 1,200 murders in Ciudad Juárez, Mexico. But the disparity predates the existence of border barriers separating the two towns.
In 2007, the year before border fencing construction began, El Paso reported 17 murders while Juárez recorded about 320 homicides, before the drug war between cartels escalated.
In 2010, after the barriers were largely completed, El Paso recorded five murders before the number increased to 16 a year later. That same year, murders in Juárez topped 3,600 before declining to over 2,000 in 2011. 
Mr. Trump was referring to the flow of drugs across the border and disputing arguments that most smuggling takes place not in remote areas where a wall might be built but through authorized border crossing points, or ports of entry. The relevant statistics come from Mr. Trump’s own agencies, not Democrats. Data from Customs and Border Protection shows that 80 percent to 90 percent of heroin, cocaine, methamphetamine and fentanyl is seized at ports of entry (marijuana is the exception). The Drug Enforcement Administration noted that a “small percentage of all heroin” is seized at areas between ports of entry.
You can. For example, the Justice Department recently detailed how an international sex trafficking ring committed visa fraud to transport women from Thailand into the United States and coerce them into the sex trade. 
About 80 percent of human trafficking victims passed through official ports of entry, according to a decade’s worth of data collected by the Counter-Trafficking Data Collaborative. The Polaris Project, a group that works to prevent human trafficking in the United States, said in a statement that out of nearly 50,000 cases it has handled, “the vast majority of victims” arrive through ports of entry. 
Israel built a wall along its border with Egypt in 2013, and it has proved to be effective. Israeli officials have said that illegal crossings decreased to 12 in 2014 from more than 16,000 in 2011 — a 99 percent reduction.
Whether that example could be applied to the United States is another matter, as PolitiFact has reported. The border between Israel and Egypt is much shorter than the United States-Mexico border, along flat land as opposed to mountainous terrain. Israel also invested in technology and manpower to guard its border.
Mr. Trump is right that previous presidents have issued 58 national emergency declarations since 1978, 30 of which are still in effect. But those declarations have largely dealt with crises and conflicts abroad.
Examples include blocking transactions with the Taliban, prohibiting the importation of diamonds from Sierra Leone, placing restrictions on North Korea and allowing faster treatment during the swine flu outbreak in 2009.
Mr. Trump’s declaration, however, is extraordinary in that it addresses a domestic policy issue and involves redirecting money without the approval of Congress.
The funding deal passed by Congress on Thursday authorized $1.375 billion for border fencing, which is less than the $1.6 billion that senators proposed last June and that Mr. Trump rejected. Asked about his reaction to the reduced funding, Mr. Trump misleadingly cited comments made by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
At a news conference in January, while the government was still partially shut down, Ms. Pelosi jokingly said that she would agree to give Mr. Trump $1 for his border wall. But Ms. Pelosi and Democrats have consistently drawn a distinction between the wall and border security, referring to employing technology enhancements and additional personnel as well as barriers. At that same January news conference, Ms. Pelosi and other Democrats promoted a bill that included $1.3 billion for border fencing and would have temporarily reopened the government. 
Mr. Trump also repeated four other claims about immigration and his border wall that The New York Times has previously fact-checked: 
Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com. 
I’d like to apologize to all the “banana republics” I’ve offended over the decades with snarky references to their dysfunction. This is karma: I now live in a nation where a petulant president has shut down much of the most powerful government in the world — so the White House isn’t even paying its water bills.
The government has shut down before, under presidents of both parties. But this shutdown is particularly childish and unnecessary; to revise Churchill, rarely have so many suffered so much at the hands of so few.
It’s difficult to pick the craziest of the arguments that President Trump is making about the shutdown — there’s a vast buffet of imbecility to choose from — but here’s my good-faith effort.
1. This is a crisis! Terrorists are crossing the border! Rapists!
This is more like a lull than a crisis. The number of people apprehended at the border remains near a 45-year low. From 1972 on, there were more apprehensions every single year than there were in 2017.
As for terrorists, experts say that there isn’t a single known case of a terrorist sneaking into the United States along unfenced areas of the southern border. Ever.
2. Only a wall can do the job. A big beautiful wall that stops people and drugs.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was wrong to describe a wall as “an immorality,” for we need border security, and a wall in some places can be effective. But a great majority of the undocumented immigrants in the country didn’t arrive by sneaking across the border, but rather came legally, often at airports, and overstayed their visas. The most beautiful of walls wouldn’t stop them.
Likewise, drug smuggling is a real problem, but narcotics have mostly been smuggled in on trucks, cars and airplanes at official ports of entry, or through tunnels under the border, or through the postal system — not by individuals crossing remote parts of the border.
“The Daily Show” dug up a 2004 college graduation speech in which Trump counseled perseverance of just the kind that makes walls, by themselves, not terribly effective: “Never, ever give up. … If there’s a concrete wall in front of you, go through it, go over it, go around it, but get to the other side of the wall.” 
3. But this is a humanitarian issue!
Yes, it is. The most egregious humanitarian concern has been Trump’s brutal policy of separating children from parents at the border.
“Kids are still being separated,” Lee Gelernt of the A.C.L.U. told me. Mostly the government does this when it says that a parent has a criminal history, but the offenses sometimes were minor or unsubstantiated.
Meanwhile, the government shutdown causes other tragedies. For example, even in normal times 3,000 people a year die in the United States from food-borne illness, yet the Food and Drug Administration has now had to stop most routine food inspections, with inspectors sent home on furlough. The result may well be more people getting sick or dying from food poisoning.
4. The president doesn't need Congress. After all, he's the president!
Plenty of people would be a bit relieved if Trump took the dubious route of declaring a national emergency and trying to steal, er, divert money intended for disaster victims to pay for his wall. It might be a way out of our national stalemate, allowing the government to reopen.
But look, folks, when we welcome our president doing something possibly illegal, as he unjustly takes money from disaster victims, that just confirms that we have a crisis — not at the border but in Washington.
Trump’s wall isn’t about governing but about creating a political symbol and rallying his base. The problem is that it’s an expensive symbol.
By my calculations, the $5.7 billion could send 100,000 at-risk American kids to a high-quality preschool for a year AND provide Pell grants for 100,000 students to attend college for a full four years, with enough left over to ALSO provide a year’s comprehensive treatment to 115,000 Americans struggling with opioid addiction.
5. Anyway, Mexico will pay for the wall.
Trump repeatedly declared that Mexico would pay for the wall, and he still insists that Mexico will pay for it indirectly “many, many times over.” So I have a solution to the whole mess.
Since Mexico will pay for the wall eventually, the problem now is one of cash flow. Fortunately, we have financial instruments to deal with precisely this issue.
I propose that Trump pay the $5.7 billion himself, and then the U.S. will repay him (with a nice interest rate) as the Mexican payments for the wall pour in. The Federal Reserve can verify the Mexican income stream and forward the sums to Trump.
Since he’s so confident that the wall will pay for itself, he should be delighted with this option. Right, Mr. President?
McALLEN, Tex. — President Trump traveled to the Rio Grande Valley earlier this month and made his case for building a wall on the Southern border — needed, he said, to keep America safe from a variety of dangers that are continuing to make their way across the frontier from Mexico.
To help make his point, the evidence was laid out on tables: a big bag of cash, bundles of drugs, high-powered firearms, all confiscated by law enforcement agents working the borderlands in South Texas.
“This is just all recent. This is all very recent,” Mr. Trump said, pointing to the illicit exhibit in front of him. Mr. Trump was not shy about his disgust for the illegal goods: “It looks pretty brutal. This is not a manufactured deal, as you say. This is the real stuff.”
But the display at the president’s Jan. 10 round table, it turns out, had little to do with what happens along unfortified reaches of the border. An examination of the seized items suggests that a border wall would not have stopped most of the items from entering the United States, or, in the case of several weapons displayed in front of the president, from leaving the United States for Mexico.
Many of the items on display were seized on international bridges on the Texas border, detected by canines and Customs and Border Protection officers. Some of them were found during traffic stops or, in one case, inside a South Texas home, and it’s hard to know how they entered the country.
“It’s not complex,” the president said, after various officials described the items on the table. “If we don’t have a barrier, a very substantial barrier of some kind, you’re never going to be able to solve this problem.”
But of course, the story of illegal border trafficking is complex. And one of the biggest takeaways to be gleaned from Mr. Trump’s exhibit table was that nearly all of the items were intercepted by vigilant border agents — federal employees who have not been paid since the fight over a border wall led to a partial shutdown of the federal government on Dec. 22.
The tableau in front of Mr. Trump included an AK-47 assault rifle and multiple 9-millimeter handguns. Though Mr. Trump seemed to take credit for the “all recent” seizures of illegal goods, these weapons were actually seized in June 2016, the month before Mr. Trump officially won the Republican nomination for president.
When a vehicle drove south from the Texas border town of Mission and onto the Anzalduas International Bridge bound for Mexico, C.B.P. officers searched the car and found the weapons, according to an agency spokesman. There were also 20 ammunition magazines found in the vehicle, the spokesman said.
American-made guns have illegally flowed south into Mexico in large numbers for years. A 2013 study by the University of San Diego found that nearly half of American firearms dealers are dependent on Mexican sales, with an estimated 253,000 firearms purchased annually between 2010 and 2012 to be taken across the border.
Stacks of $20 bills bundled in a plastic bag totaling $362,062 sat on one table. Just days before the president arrived in McAllen, the cash had been inside the South Texas home of Edsgardo Coss-Vallejo.
Mr. Coss-Vallejo had been living in the United States on a visa, but overstayed his allowed time in the country. When Hidalgo County authorities and federal agents showed up at his house to investigate, Mr. Coss-Vallejo allowed them inside to conduct a search of his home. Border Patrol canines alerted on a duffel bag containing the cash. Mr. Coss-Vallejo denied ownership of the money.
Mr. Coss-Vallejo was arrested on suspicion of marriage fraud and currency smuggling, and he was deported to Mexico.
After a large X-ray scanned a tractor-trailer entering Texas from Mexico at the Pharr-Reynosa International Bridge in September, Customs inspectors wanted a closer look. Canines did the rest and detected the drugs, according to a C.B.P. spokesman.
Authorities found 117 kilograms of methamphetamines and 12.5 kilograms of heroin concealed in the ceiling of the truck, the spokesman said. A majority of heroin that enters the United States from Mexico crosses not through remote stretches of unfenced desert, but through legal ports of entry, such as the border crossing in Pharr, Tex. 
“But there’s no way to know how much gets through,” said Fulton T. Armstrong, who has worked as a national intelligence officer at the Central Intelligence Agency, on the National Security Council and on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, focusing on Latin America.
“The biggest shipments come through legal, established ports of entry,” Mr. Armstrong said in an interview, though he added that there are also examples of drug smuggling that do not occur at official border crossings. Mr. Armstrong added: “Carrying this stuff requires sophistication. You don’t just put it in your pocket, you don’t carry large suitcases or bags when you come through non-ports of entry.”
This has raised questions about Mr. Trump’s argument that a wall would help curb drug flows.
“Would setting up a fence help? No. There’s no evidence at all,” Mr. Armstrong said.
A .50-caliber sniper rifle took up a big part of one wooden table, with an AR-15 rifle positioned flat on its side alongside it.
In November 2017, Homeland Security Investigations agents, working on a tip from C.B.P., found the sniper rifle during a traffic stop in South Texas, according to a C.B.P. spokesman. The AR-15 was found the same way — by H.S.I. agents in South Texas, but in January 2018.
It is unclear where the weapons were headed, or whether they even originated in Mexico. Border Patrol agents infrequently encounter firearms smuggled across the Rio Grande, or into the United States between bridge crossings. Again, most seem to be heading the other way.
“The thing that’s missing from the debate is the southbound stuff,” Mr. Armstrong said. “The weapons, the cash.”
“Literature, be it in the form of a play or poem or novel, is often at its most captivating when it is at its most exaggerated, when it articulates our collective fears or concerns,” writes Hanya Yanagihara in her editor’s letter for T’s Culture issue, which comprises 15 original plays that imagine our country five years into the future. The same could be said of music. In uncertain times, it is often musicians who are quickest and best able to express our underlying anxieties, and their work is stronger for it. Accordingly, we asked four artists, Stephen Malkmus, Kelsey Lu, Bonnie “Prince” Billy and Meg Baird to write and record original songs that meditate on the theme of America in 2024. Each artist took this prompt in a different direction. From the distorted techno of Malkmus’s track “Airplane Air,” which he envisages as something that might, in the future, be played “on pirate radio in a police state,” to the mournful psych-rock strains of Baird’s song “1,000 Goodbyes x 100 Hellos,” in which she asks, in her words, “whether we can trade our collective environmental, social and economic anxieties for action,” listen to the four tracks below.

MADRID — A former Venezuelan spy chief has been arrested by Spanish authorities who acted on an extradition request from the United States, where he is wanted for drug trafficking.
Hugo Carvajal, who had also served as a lawmaker in President Nicolás Maduro’s ruling party, was taken in by Spanish police in Madrid on Friday afternoon, the Spanish police said. He is now expected to appear on Saturday before a Spanish judge, who will review the extradition request.
Mr. Carvajal left Venezuela after making a dramatic break from Mr. Maduro’s government and telling The New York Times in an interview in February that he had witnessed multiple members of Venezuela’s government being involved in drug trafficking.
Mr. Carvajal is wanted for similar crimes himself, having been accused of taking money from a Colombian drug trafficker in an indictment that was unsealed in 2014. In 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department sanctioned Mr. Carvajal, who was then head of the country’s military intelligence agency, for “protecting drug shipments from seizure by Venezuelan authorities” as well as providing weapons to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, then the country’s main rebel organization.
In the February interview, Mr. Carvajal denied the charges, saying he had been in touch with the rebels only to negotiate for the release of a Venezuelan businessman they had kidnapped. He had not been involved in drug trafficking, he said, but repeatedly reported suspicious cocaine shipments to top officials, who ignored them.
Mr. Carvajal, who goes by the nickname “el Pollo,” or “the Chicken,” in Venezuela, made a dramatic public defection from his government by video, urging his former military comrades to rise up against Mr. Maduro and support Juan Guaidó, the leader of the opposition. Few followed his call, however, and Mr. Carvajal’s whereabouts have been unknown since.
His reappearance Friday in the hands of Spanish authorities may lead to his transfer to U.S. custody — and to prosecutors eager to interrogate him on the wrongdoing he has alleged by those in Mr. Maduro’s inner circle.
American authorities’ attempts to capture Mr. Carvajal have stretched on for years.
In 2014, after being appointed as the country’s general counsel to the Caribbean island of Aruba, officials there arrested him, raising hopes with their U.S. counterparts that he would soon be extradited. Aruba originally said that it never accepted his diplomatic post and that he was not protected by it from arrest.
But after angry statements from Venezuela — which lies only 20 miles from the tiny resort island — Mr. Carvajal was released back to Venezuela. He entered the National Assembly afterward as a lawmaker and had since been out of the reach of U.S. authorities.
PORTO ALEGRE — Before Brazilian prosecutors could conduct an inspection last year of the prison considered the country's worst, its warden had to clear their visit with the jail's de facto authorities: in-house prison gangs. 
As Brazil's incarcerated population has surged eight-fold in three decades to around 750,000 inmates, the world's third-highest tally, its prison gangs have come to wield vast power that reaches far beyond the jailhouse walls.
New President Jair Bolsonaro's vow to crack down on spiralling crime has put him on a collision course with the jail gangs. In a strategy detailed to Reuters for the first time, top security officials said they plan to isolate gang bosses, ramp up surveillance, build more lockups and deploy federal forces to beleaguered state prison systems. 
Originally formed to protect inmates and advocate for better conditions, Brazil's prison gangs are now involved in bank heists, drug trafficking and gun-running, with jailed kingpins presiding over their empires via smuggled cellphones. 
Their spread has kindled a violent crime wave, turning Brazil into the world's murder capital. With a record 64,000 people killed in 2017, the prison gangs, or "facções," have become the country's most pressing security concern, and a daunting foe for Bolsonaro, a far-right former army captain.
"The solution to public security in Brazil depends on lots of things, and one of those is the prison system," said Fabiano Bordignon, Bolsonaro's appointment as head of the National Penitentiary Department.
Bordignon, in an interview, said Brazil's roughly 1,500 jails need about 350,000 more spaces to house prisoners. He plans to use a 1.5 billion reais ($396 million) federal prison fund to help state governments build between 10,000 and 20,000 spaces this year. 
By the end of Bolsonaro's term in 2022, Bordignon hopes to lower the deficit by up to 140,000 spaces. But with each new space costing an average of 50,000 reais, he knows he needs more money: "We're not going to be able to solve everything in four years," he said. 
Still, authorities must "retake control" of Brazil's jails, he added, since "in a good number of them, the state has no control."
BRAZIL'S WORST
Nowhere is that reality starker than the Central Prison in the southern city of Porto Alegre. Inaugurated in 1959, it is Brazil's largest lockup, and, according to a 2015 congressional report, also its worst. 
When investigators from the National Council of the Public Ministry came to inspect the prison last year, its warden told them he had to first okay it with gang leaders, according to the investigators' report. 
The prison has a capacity of 1,824 people, but when Reuters visited, officials said there were nearly 5,000 inmates from at least eight different gangs stuffed into its moldy galleys - more than the entire prison population of Norway.
Internally, the prison is controlled by the facções, whose members live in rancid, densely packed cellblocks that armed guards only enter in riot gear. In one gang-controlled wing, some 300 inmates lived in a space designed for 200, with many sleeping in the corridor.
Roughly 30 percent of the jail's population is more-or-less illiterate, and dozens of prisoners suffer from tuberculosis and syphilis, officials in the jail's educational and medical wings said. In the exercise yard, which inmates share with rats and cockroaches, raw sewage gurgles out of broken pipes. 
The gangs offer protection from rape and rival crews, but it comes at a steep price. Inmates here must buy their food from their bosses, who even control inmates' intimate visits. 
During Reuters' tour, a gang boss smoked impassively as inmates filed in and out of a foul corridor, where they snuggled with girlfriends, wives or prostitutes on stained mattresses. Every so often, the boss called out a prisoner's name to indicate his time was up.
Herique Junior Da Rocha Machado cast his lot with the prison's 780 working inmates, who cook, clean and wash. The orange-clad workers are housed apart from the facções, but are reviled for collaborating with their jailers.
"If you don't go into the workers wing, you go in with the facções. Then, when you return to the street, you end up falling back into crime," said Machado, who was jailed for his role in a kidnapping. "The situation only deteriorates." 
FRESH LEGISLATION
Elected in October on a law-and-order platform to end years of graft and rising violence, Bolsonaro and his government must now pit their tough talk against the gangs.
To restore order, Bolsonaro has tapped Justice Minister Sergio Moro, a former judge who made his name jailing scores of Brazil's political and business elite in the sweeping "Car Wash" corruption investigation.
In February, Moro unveiled his signature crime-fighting bill, which includes proposals to toughen prison sentences and isolate gang leaders in maximum-security lockups.
Moro's proposal faces an uncertain future in Congress, where Bolsonaro is struggling to marshal a stable coalition. 
Even if Moro's bill flounders, Bordignon said the government plans to make it harder for cell phones to enter prisons, toughen recruitment of guards and launch a ranking system to help the federal government focus resources on failing jails. 
He also expressed willingness during the interview to dispatch federal forces to states losing control of their prisons. 
In January, Bolsonaro's government sent federal agents to calm the northeastern state of Ceará, which suffered a wave of coordinated gang attacks after state authorities announced plans to toughen prison conditions.
The following month, the government struck another blow against the gangs by moving several leaders of Sao Paulo's powerful First Capital Command (PCC), including top kingpin Marcos Willians Camacho, or "Marcola," into federal jails. 
Reuters visited the federal jail in Brasilia where Marcola and several other PCC leaders are being held. 
Opened late last year at a cost of 45 million reais ($12 million) and modelled after a famous U.S. supermax prison in Colorado, the Brasilia jail has 208 individual cells, with 12 extra-secure ones for inmates such as Marcola.
High-risk prisoners are locked up for 22 hours each day, exercising for two hours in a small yard adjacent to their cell. Intimate visits are prohibited, and authorities recently put a stop to physical contact between inmates and their relatives or lawyers. Conversations now occur via telephone, with inmates separated from visitors by a hard plastic window.
"The federal penitentiaries are the most effective tool today to combat organised crime in Brazil," said Marcelo Stona, director of operations for the National Penitentiary Department.
NEW JAILS, SAME PROBLEMS
Nonetheless, Brazil has just five federal jails, all built since 2006, with capacity for just over 1,000 inmates - about 0.1 percent of the current prison population.
Like Porto Alegre's Central prison, the vast majority of Brazil's jails are run by financially stretched state governments, often with patchy results. Overcrowded cell blocks are policed by underpaid guards and deadly riots are common. 
At least 56 inmates were killed in the northern city of Manaus in 2017, when members of rival prison gangs began slaughtering each other. Many were decapitated and dismembered. 
Brazil's states have made efforts to build modern, "gang-free" jails, but they, too, are proving vulnerable. 
Unveiled in 2016, the Canoas jail is just over 25 kilometres (16 miles) from Porto Alegre's Central Prison, but feels a world away. The Rio Grande do Sul state government hand-picks inmates to preserve the jail's integrity. Signal-blockers prevent cellphone use. Eight-man cells, opened remotely from the floor above, minimize the risks of guards being corrupted. 
Yet despite those efforts, two prisoners died here in suspicious circumstances in the second half of 2018, and local officials have become alarmed as other overcrowded state prisons send their gang-affiliated inmates to fill up Canoas' vacancies.
"If we keep doing more of the same ... we're going to lose everything," said state prosecutor Alexander Guterres Thomé, who regularly inspects the Canoas jail. "You see that (the gangs) are starting to organise themselves in there. They want to enter, create chaos and take control." 
 (Reporting by Gabriel Stargardter; Additional reporting by Anthony Boadle; Editing by Brad Haynes and Paul Thomasch)
LOS ANGELES — In the year since U.S. authorities shut down sex ad website Backpage.com, the online prostitution market has splintered across a dark and volatile internet landscape with dozens of players trying to fill the void, according to an analysis conducted by a counter-human trafficking technology company.
The report, shared with Reuters by Childsafe.AI, also shows that a landmark package of sex trafficking laws passed by U.S. Congress, known collectively as SESTA-FOSTA, has made it difficult for sex classified websites to operate. 
Instead, the report prepared for use by law enforcement agencies showed the illicit trade of sex trafficking and prostitution of adults and children has begun to shift toward so-called hobby boards and "sugar daddy" pages.
Rob Spectre, CEO of Childsafe.AI, told Reuters in an interview that even as ad levels have begun to rebound, demand remains lower as sex trafficking has become more difficult and less profitable on the internet. 
"Basically the ads are back but the buyers aren't," Spectre said. A recent review of sex web ad sites showed men complaining to each other about the about higher prices and the difficulty in finding legitimate providers. Some openly lament the absence of Backpage.
Backpage and its affiliate websites were seized on April 6, 2018 in a U.S. Justice Department sex trafficking and child prostitution investigation. Seven people, including the website's founders, were charged in a 93-count indictment with facilitating prostitution, money laundering and fraud. 
Days after the Backpage seizure, President Donald Trump signed into law the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act and Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, or SESTA-FOSTA. The new laws amended the "safe harbors" provisions of the Communications Decency Act that had protected websites from criminal liability over third-party or user-generated content.
BACKPAGE A 'FULL MONOPOLY'
Sex worker advocates have fiercely criticized SESTA-FOSTA, arguing that taking down Backpage would drive prostitution further underground or into the streets. Free speech activists say the laws unconstitutionally burdens website owners with policing content.
The Childsafe.AI study found that Backpage's closure dealt a huge blow to the illicit world of online prostitution. Demand for prostitutes dropped 67 percent and search volume plunged 90 percent immediately after the site went offline, the report showed.
While many sex classified websites, mostly run by small-time operators, have tried to fill the gap left by Backpage's demise, they each only draw about 5-8 percent of the unique visitors Backpage was earning at its height in 2016, Spectre said.
In a 2017 U.S. Senate subcommittee report, Senator Claire McCaskill described Backpage as a $600 million company "built on selling sex and, importantly, on selling sex with children." 
"I don't think we had any understanding of how dominant Backpage was at the time," Spectre said. "They were a full monopoly on (internet-based) commercial sex in the United States." 
"The competition is so fierce, and it's really dirty, to the degree that I'm not sure there's ever going to be a single dominant player ever again," he said.
'GETTING OUT OF THE GAME'
A sampling of the current ads found nearly three-quarters were duplicates, spam or scams.
Website operators struggle to process credit card transactions or obtain outside financing. Traffickers find the costs of running their illicit business in both time and money raising, Spectre said. 
"We're seeing a greater number of victims saying they have been abandoned by their trafficker and traffickers saying, 'I'm getting out of the game, I'm going back to selling drugs."
Others have turned to social media platforms such as Twitter or Instagram, using a #backpage hashtag to signal their intentions.
Spectre said the unreliability of classified ad websites has shown a shift toward hobby boards, where clients of prostitutes share graphic reviews of women, and sugar daddy pages attempt to emulate dating sites. 
Anaheim Police Sergeant Juan Reveles of the Orange County Human Trafficking Task Force in Southern California said Backpage's closure represented a double-edged sword for law enforcement. He said the scattershot market of shadowy web sites, often incorporated overseas, that replaced it are often harder to track. 
"If we spend the time and effort to shut down one website, another one will pop up, and our resources are finite," Reveles said. 
 (Reporting by Dan Whitcomb; editing by Bill Tarrant and Diane Craft)
To the Editor:
Re “Massage-Parlor Sting Unveils Thriving Trade of Human Trafficking” (news article, Feb. 24):
The sting operation that led to the disruption of a sex-trafficking ring in South Florida, and to criminal charges against some high-profile customers, is exceptional because it reflects a cultural shift and a fundamental change in law enforcement’s approach to prostitution investigations.
From the perceptive health inspector to the Martin County sheriff, who witnessed the deplorable living conditions and took immediate steps to open an investigation into suspected debt bondage, the effort recognizes that prostitution is not a victimless crime. 
The commercial sex industry survives only because of consumer demand. As a former New York State judge who spearheaded the effort to open the state’s Human Trafficking Intervention Courts and as the current head of a nonprofit dedicated to eradicating gender violence, I applaud law enforcement for severing this monstrous operation at the root: targeting the sex buyers who perpetuate the brutal cycle of abuse and exploitation of vulnerable women.
Judy Harris KlugerNew YorkThe writer is executive director of Sanctuary for Families.
THURSDAY PUZZLE — Administrivial Update: Thanks to all who have written to let us know about the commenting issue. The community team is currently working on it and we thank you for your patience.
It’s always a pleasure to see a new constructor make a debut in The New York Times, and today we welcome Jeff Slutzky, who learned the ropes from Derek Bowman. 
A side note before we look at their puzzle: I’d like to reiterate that the best way to get started making crossword puzzles is to find a mentor and to work with that person on polishing skills before submitting work to an editor. The learning curve for making crosswords is steep and hard to climb alone. Still, some aspiring constructors avoid this step.
Maybe they want to be left alone to practice on their own, or maybe they are sensitive to criticism. For whatever reason, they avoid working with a pro and find themselves facing a long list of rejection emails, whereupon they give up and walk away from a fun hobby and a wonderful community.
I don’t understand that. Puzzle editors only have time to give limited feedback when responding to submissions, so isn’t it better to have your very own pro to ask questions and work with? The puzzle community is a lovely one, and I have not met a more helpful crowd. 
O. K., maybe emergency medical workers are actually more helpful, but if you want to learn how to make a puzzle in the most efficient way, join the Crossword Puzzle Collaboration Directory on Facebook and look at the list of veteran constructors who have volunteered their time to help. Pick one and ask if he or she has time to help you with some of your ideas. Be patient with veteran constructors’ time, and really listen to what they tell you. If they have criticism — and I hope it’s gentle and sensible — don’t feel bad or get angry at them. They are trying to make you a better (and hopefully, published) constructor. Above all, don’t give up.
Mr. Slutzky worked with Mr. Bowman before submitting his puzzle (you can read more about their collaboration in their notes below), and look where he is now. 
You could be doing that, too, and then we could all gather here to say nice things about your puzzle.
18A: “Bass group?” is nice misdirection that fooled me for quite awhile. The answer is NSYNC because the singer Lance Bass was a founding member.
20A: TIL that the Nobel Prize is not only a shiny medal, but also a monetary prize worth 9 million kronor. According to xe.com, a currency calculator, that is worth $1,011,960.43 U.S.D.
42A: “Long time out?” is not referring to being outside your home for a long time, it’s talking about being “out” or unconscious for a long time. The answer is COMA.
49A: The entry ATF is short for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (that was added on later), and it’s not the answer to “Group of traffic cops, for short?” because police officers who direct traffic are part of the group. The word “traffic” is being used here in the illegal “trafficking” sense.
50A: The GIG economy consists of freelance jobs like driving for Uber, renting property via Airbnb or helping others take care of mundane errands via TaskRabbit.
22D: Congratulations to “The Last Jedi” director RIAN Johnson, who is appearing in the New York Times Crossword for the first time.
Mr. Slutzky and Mr. Bowman offer us a sound addition theme, wherein we are supposed to add TOR to the theme entries to give them a different meaning. The revealer at 66A, the final Across entry, is TORAH, clued as “Sacred text … or your reaction upon figuring out this puzzle's theme?” (“TOR … Ah!”)
For example, at 21A, the answer to the clue “Kidnapper who gets arrested?” is CAPTOR IN HAND, which is based on the phrase “cap in hand.”
Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.
Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. 
Your thoughts?
LOS ANGELES — Walt Disney Co unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix Inc. 
The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the "Star Wars" galaxy, "Toy Story" creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 (53 pounds) per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disney's libraries will include: 
* Classic Disney animated movies such as "101 Dalmations" and "Bambi" 
* The entire Pixar catalog including "A Bug's Life" and "Cars" 
* "Captain Marvel" and three other Marvel films 
* The first and second "Star Wars" trilogies
* Live-action movies such as the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series, "Mary Poppins" and "The Sound of Music."
* More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as "Hannah Montana"
Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service. According to the company, that will include: 
STAR WARS
A new season of animated series "Star Wars: The Clone Wars"
A live-action "Star Wars" series called "The Mandalorian," developed by Jon Favreau
A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" 
MARVEL
A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston
A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch
ANIMATION
"Monsters at Work," a series inspired by Pixar hit "Monsters Inc." Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
MOVIES
Remakes of Disney classics such as "Lady and the Tramp" and "Sword in the Stone" 
"Noelle," a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader
"Togo," starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog 
TELEVISION
A new "High School Musical" series
"Diary of a Female President," a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States
NON-FICTION
"Marvel's 616," a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world
"Be Our Chef," a food competition show in which families compete and the winner's dish will be served at Walt Disney World
"Rogue Trip," a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit
 (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler)
Brandon Belt opened the 18th inning with a double, and he slid home on Erik Kratz's bases-loaded ground ball one out later, giving the San Francisco Giants a 3-2 victory over the Colorado Rockies in a game that started on Friday night and ended on Saturday morning.
The win was the Giants' second in two games in the four-game series and gave them their first winning streak of the season. Colorado, which led 2-0 but did not score in the final 14 innings, dropped its seventh straight.
Left-hander Travis Bergen (2-0) got the win for the Giants after pitching two scoreless innings, striking out five.
The game was the longest of the major league season as well as the longest in Rockies-Giants history.
Astros 10, Mariners 6
Jose Altuve and Yuli Gurriel hit grand slams as Houston defeated host Seattle. It was the fourth consecutive game in which Altuve has gone deep, and he has five home runs over that span.
George Springer also homered for the Astros, who extended their winning streak to seven games. The Mariners had their six-game winning streak snapped.
Tom Murphy hit a solo homer in the ninth inning to extend the Mariners' major league record of consecutive games with a home run to start a season to 16.
Mets 6, Braves 2
Brandon Nimmo belted a two-run homer to highlight his three-hit performance as visiting New York won at Atlanta. The Mets matched a franchise record by scoring at least six runs in their sixth straight game.
Jeff McNeil ripped a two-run double and Robinson Cano and Michael Conforto each had an RBI double for the Mets, who also scored at least six runs in six straight games in 1997, 1998 and twice in 2007.
Georgia native Zack Wheeler (1-1) allowed two runs on six hits and struck out eight to improve to 6-3 in 11 career starts versus the Braves.
Red Sox 6, Orioles 4
Eduardo Rodriguez became the first Red Sox starter to win a game this season as Boston held off visiting Baltimore in the opener of a four-game series.
Rodriguez, who entered the seventh having allowed just one hit, gave up a two-run home run to Dwight Smith Jr. with two outs in the inning, ending his night. He yielded the two runs on three hits, striking out eight and walking none. Entering the game, Boston starters had been 0-8 with a league-worst 8.79 ERA this year.
The Orioles dropped their fourth straight game and have lost eight of their past nine following a 4-1 start.
Phillies 9, Marlins 1
Andrew McCutchen went 3-for-4 with a three-run homer as Philadelphia routed host Miami. Jean Segura also had three hits, and J.T. Realmuto and Bryce Harper each had two hits and one RBI as the Phillies snapped a two-game losing streak.
This was Realmuto's first game against the Marlins, the team that drafted him. Marlins catcher Jorge Alfaro -- who arrived from the Phillies in the Realmuto trade this spring -- went 2-for-3 with a run.
Jake Arrieta (2-1) struck out eight batters in seven innings to earn the win. He allowed five hits, one walk and one run.
Pirates 6, Nationals 3 (10 innings)
Pinch hitter Colin Moran hit a three-run homer in the top of the 10th off Justin Miller on an 0-2 pitch as Pittsburgh prevailed in a back-and-forth contest with Washington.
Miller has now allowed four homers this year in seven outings. Moran was batting for Jung Ho Kang after Melky Cabrera and Adam Frazier got on base against Matt Grace (0-1).
The winner was Nick Burdi (1-1), who allowed a double by Howie Kendrick in the ninth but didn't give up a run. Former Nationals pitcher Felipe Vazquez pitched the last of the 10th for the Pirates to earn his fourth save of the season.
Rays 11, Jays 7
Austin Meadows and Brandon Lowe each homered twice -- including one each into the 500 level -- and visiting Tampa Bay defeated Toronto.
The blasts were the 21st and 22nd home runs hit to the 500 level of Rogers Centre since it opened in 1989. Willy Adames added a two-run homer for the Rays.
Luke Maile homered for the Blue Jays, who rallied from an 8-0 deficit to draw within one run before the Rays scored three in the ninth.
Athletics 8, Rangers 6
Khris Davis continued his slugging ways with an eighth-inning solo homer that completed visiting Oakland's rally from a five-run deficit for a win in Arlington, Texas.
It was Davis' fifth home run in his last three games and his 10th of the season. His grounder to third base in the sixth inning scored Mark Canha as part of a four-run rally that included an RBI double from Stephen Piscotty that shrunk a 6-1 Rangers lead to 6-5.
In his first game against his former team, A's second baseman Jurickson Profar had two hits, drove in Oakland's first run and scored the A's final run, an insurance run in the ninth.
Padres 2, Diamondbacks 1
Four San Diego pitchers retired the final 19 batters, Fernando Tatis Jr. doubled home the tiebreaking run in the seventh inning, and the Padres beat Arizona in Phoenix.
Padres rookie Chris Paddack allowed three hits and one run in 5 1/3 innings. He was pulled after 88 pitches despite retiring eight consecutive batters following an RBI single by David Peralta in the third inning. Paddack struck out five and walked one in outdueling Arizona's Luke Weaver (0-1).
Gerardo Reyes, called up from Triple-A El Paso earlier Friday, retired both batters he faced to end the sixth inning and get a win in his major league debut. Adam Warren worked two perfect innings before giving way to Kirby Yates, who earned his eighth save.
Royals 8, Indians 1
Kansas City hit for the cycle its first time through the order and grabbed its biggest lead of the season in a six-run first inning en route to a victory over visiting Cleveland. The Royals snapped a 10-game losing streak.
Brad Keller (2-1) gave up one run on three hits and five walks over 6 2/3 innings, with a career-high 10 strikeouts. He has now pitched at least six innings in nine straight starts, the longest active streak in the majors.
Alex Gordon had four hits, including three extra-base hits, and three RBIs for the Royals.
White Sox 9, Yankees 6 (7 innings)
Eloy Jimenez snapped a tie with his first career home run, a two-run shot in the fifth inning, then homered in his next at-bat in the seventh as Chicago halted a five-game losing streak with a rain-shortened victory over host New York.
In his 46th career at-bat, the rookie left fielder gave the White Sox a 7-5 lead by leaving no doubt about his milestone. Jimenez slugged a 2-1 four-seam fastball by Jonathan Holder over the center field fence and on to the netting above Monument Park.
The game was halted after a delay in the top of the seventh inning.
Brewers 8, Dodgers 5
Yasmani Grandal had three hits, including a two-run home run that gave visiting Milwaukee the lead for good against Los Angeles.
Hernan Perez also hit a two-run homer for the Brewers to erase an early one-run deficit in the opener of the three-game series. Matt Albers (1-0) got the win in relief.
The Dodgers received home runs from Corey Seager, Cody Bellinger and Joc Pederson.
Cubs 5, Angels 1
Willson Contreras had three hits, including two solo home runs, and Chicago won the opener of the three-game series against visiting Los Angeles, which had its six-game winning streak halted.
Cole Hamels (2-0) gave up one run and four hits over eight innings, striking out six without walking a batter. Hamels improved to 5-2 and lowered his ERA to 2.63 in his career against the Angels.
Anthony Rizzo and David Bote also homered for the Cubs, who have won two straight for the first time this season.
Tigers at Twins, ppd
The game between Minnesota and Detroit at Target Field was postponed due to a snow storm. The contest will be made up as part of a day-night doubleheader on May 11.
--Field Level Media
BOULOGNE-SUR-MER, France — There is disquiet along the cold, foggy quays of this major French fishing port facing Britain.
Captain after captain, returning to Boulogne-sur-Mer in squat fishing boats with the day’s haul of crab and sole, has the same story: Their boats are being broken into.
The suspected culprits, according to the fishermen and local officials? Smugglers, and their migrant clients, who are intent on reaching Britain and are looking for vessels to cross the forbidding waters of the English Channel. A few of the stolen boats have even been taken to sea.
Since the start of Europe’s migration crisis in 2015, the English Channel has largely been seen as an unbreachable barrier, its shifting currents and volatile weather making any attempt to cross too dangerous.
But officials in Boulogne-sur-Mer, France’s largest fishing port, reported a surge of these migrant crossings in the last three months of 2018, whether in a stolen fishing boat or, far more frequently, in small inflatable craft that set off in the dark from the miles of beaches lining the French coast.
“This is something completely new for us,” said Marc Bonnafous, who oversees the government’s search and rescue operation in the channel waters from the lighthouse high above the sea here at Cap Gris-Nez, up the coast from Boulogne. “And it has absolutely exploded.”
Last year, around 500 migrants — 10 times as many as in 2017 — attempted the voyage across the channel, a trip of about 20 miles at its narrowest point. More than half made it across.
The relatively small numbers notwithstanding, the crossings have set off large concerns in Britain, with headlines and anti-immigration politicians calling it a crisis. This month, the French interior minister, after talks with his British equivalent, announced that patrols would be increased at the port to try to stop any crossing attempts.
Along the quays in Boulogne, the taciturn fishermen expressed surprise at the sudden intrusion of this new competitor for the sea.
“This boat is my business. It’s my only enterprise,” said Jean-Marie Baheu, as he glumly tried to fix a lock damaged in a break-in on his boxy, 40-foot fishing boat, the Murex. Someone had tried to smash into the captain’s cabin several nights before, damaging the door.
“We just don’t know what to do about this,” Mr. Baheu said, fiddling with a screwdriver.
The Quai Gambetta, onto which deck hands from the Murex were hoisting crates of freshly caught crab as the captain worked on his repairs, gives out directly on to the sea and is the preferred docking spot for the port’s skippers. From here, they can unload their catch directly to the fish stalls run by relatives that line the waterfront.
But the quay is readily accessible from the town, and its exposure makes the boats vulnerable. Twelve attempted break-ins have been logged in recent weeks, said Stéphane Pinto, the vice president of the regional fisherman’s committee.
“We’ve never seen anything like this,” said Valerie Arnout, who was at her stand on the quay selling sole and skate caught by her brother that morning. “It’s really very disturbing.”
The town, the largest fish-processing center in Europe, depends on its fleet for survival, so any threat to the boats is taken seriously. Some of the fishermen are vowing to sit up all night in their boats, cradling their guns.
“It’s the worry above all,” Ms. Arnout said. “We’re all very concerned about it around here.”
As other routes to Britain are blocked — the tunnel at Calais is sealed up tight and French officials have taken a tough line on the camps that once flourished at its edges, regularly dispersing them — the frigid, treacherous waters of the channel beckon to the desperate migrants.
Most of those attempting the crossing by boat are Iranians, according to officials, in part because they have the means to pay the hefty fees demanded. In one recent case, a group of the migrants paid their smuggler 100,000 euros, around $115,000, officials said.
The English Channel is one of the most heavily trafficked waterways in the world, with giant container ships and ferries whose wake could easily tip over the frail, inflatable skiffs typically used by the migrants — which is what makes the much more seaworthy fishing boats so attractive.
“The risks are extremely high,” Mr. Bonnafous said.
The currents are strong and constant, he added, and the water so cold that “you would survive for less than an hour.”
In a marine police photograph of a rescue off Calais on Dec. 27, one man is clad in a T-shirt. Five of the 11 rescued had hypothermia.
So far, there have been no reported deaths from the crossings, but Mr. Bonnafous thinks it is only a matter of time. And as news of the successful crossings reaches more migrants, the number of attempts is likely to rise, increasing the odds of fatalities. There were 78 crossings and attempts last year, with the number spiking in November and December.
From the lighthouse where Mr. Bonnafous works, the white cliffs of Dover, England, are visible in the distance. His colleagues are bent over radar screens tracking the crossings.
A boat taking what Mr. Bonnafous calls an “erratic” course will trigger an alarm among the rescuers, although it is often the migrants themselves who call the emergency number and ask to be rescued.
The distress calls often come in the early morning hours, leaving the rescue teams the nightmare task of finding the small boats in the dark, “like looking for a needle in a haystack,” Mr. Bonnafous said.
While the recent effort to steal Mr. Baheu’s boat failed, in a few cases the thieves have succeeded.
In November, 17 Iranians made off with the Epervier, taking it from the docks of Boulogne and sailing to Dover, where they were arrested.
And on a dark night just before Christmas, 14 migrants, including several children, made it seven miles off the coast on a boat stolen from the inner harbor at Boulogne, the St. Catherine, before the motor gave out. The thieves had forgotten to open the cooling valves.
“They completely fried the motor,” said Quentin Gillon, who was sorting a tangled mass of ropes on the deck of the Saint Catherine, his cousin’s boat. “And then the boat got stuck.”
On New Year’s Eve, it was the turn of the Caprice des Temps: The police, making the rounds on the quay, arrested 17 people, including a mother and two children, before the boat was able to depart.
On Christmas Day, the dashboard of the Don Lubi, the boat belonging to Mr. Pinto, the regional fishing official, was ripped out. The thieves were trying to connect wires underneath to start the engine. They failed, but ruined the motor in the process. That same day, around 40 migrants made it across the Channel.
Mr. Pinto said he was not unsympathetic to the plight of the migrants, but he was concerned both for their safety and his livelihood.
“These nonprofits that are supposed to be helping the migrants, they should come down here on the quays and warn them not to risk their lives,” he said.
MILWAUKEE — Christian Yelich homered and drove in three, Josh Hader completed an eight-out save and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Chicago Cubs 4-2 Sunday.
Zach Davies (1-0) pitched effectively into the sixth, helping Milwaukee win for the seventh time in eight games, including two of three against Chicago. The Brewers have won 15 of their last 16 regular season series dating to last year.
The Cubs lost for the seventh time in eight games, dropping to 2-7.
Willson Contreras' two-run homer in the sixth against Davies was unearned, and that was all Chicago could muster at the plate. Davies pitched 5 2/3 innings of five-hit ball, and Alex Claudio got two outs before handing off to Hader.
Hader struck out three over 2 2/3 perfect innings, throwing 36 pitches for his fifth save. The All-Star left-hander hadn't pitched since Tuesday against Cincinnati.
Yelich struck a two-run homer in the first inning off Kyle Hendricks (0-2), his fifth of the season and 100th of his career.
Travis Shaw's run-scoring single in the third made it 3-0. Milwaukee loaded the bases with no outs in the fourth but managed just one run on Yelich's sacrifice fly.
Hendricks surrendered four runs and eight hits in four innings. He walked one and struck out four over 75 pitches.
After giving up a single to Ben Zobrist to lead off the game, Davies (1-0) retired nine in row before Kris Bryant's one-out bloop single in the fourth.
Davies cruised until the sixth, when Anthony Rizzo reached on first baseman Eric Thames' error and Javier Baez had an infield hit. Milwaukee nearly escaped with a groundball double play, but Contreras hit a two-run homer to chase Davies.
The Cubs threatened again the seventh, putting runners on the corners with one out before Hader came on to record the final two outs, including a strikeout of Rizzo.
ROSTER MOVE
The Brewers recalled RHP Jake Petricka from Triple-A San Antonio. RHP Taylor Williams was optioned to San Antonio.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Brewers: 1B Jesus Aguilar, LF Ryan Braun and C Yasmani Grandal, all regular starters, got the day off.
UP NEXT
Cubs: After a nine-game road trip to start the season, Chicago will open at home Monday against Pittsburgh. Jon Lester (1-0, 3.00 ERA) will make his third start of the season. He's 9-6 with a 3.18 ERA in 18 career starts against the Pirates.
Brewers: Jhoulys Chacin (2-0, 4.22) will take the mound in the opener of a three-game series in Los Angeles against the Angels.
___
The original Mets were created from the ashes of the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, both of whom had deserted New York City after the 1957 season. Now, five years later, National League baseball was back, so to speak. For it was quickly apparent that the Mets’ roster, put together mostly from players left unprotected by the other National League teams, was a mess.
Left to do the best he could with it was baseball’s most colorful manager, Casey Stengel, who had won seven World Series with the Yankees but had been dismissed after the 1960 season, at the age of 70, because the Yankees felt he was too old. Now, he was even older, but on the Mets that hardly mattered because they had plenty of players past their prime.
Stengel, with his amusing, and endless, observations became the perfect narrator for a season of amazingly bad baseball. It began with nine straight losses and by its close, the Mets had won just 40 games and lost 120, the most defeats in a single season in the modern history of baseball.
Adding to the absurdity was that the Mets had two pitchers named Bob Miller — Righty Bob Miller and Lefty Bob Miller. And a first baseman known as Marvelous Marv Throneberry, with the Marvelous meant as a joke, not a compliment.
On it went right up to the last day of the season, when the Mets managed to hit into a triple play. By then, as Robert Lipsyte of The New York Times put it, they had become an international symbol of incompetence.
Following are excerpts from Times articles during the 1962 season:
History was made tonight by the New York Mets. They broke into the expanded National League at long last, but wound up on the short end of an 11-4 score, beaten conclusively by the St. Louis Cardinals at Busch Stadium.
In their first official effort, the Mets unfortunately did much to beat themselves. Despite the 16 hits the Cardinals collected, four ineffective New York pitchers, backed by a loose defense, hurt the Mets immeasurably.
The season opener here before 16,147 half-frozen fans saw the Mets commit three errors and permit three stolen bases.
Adding to Manager Casey Stengel’s miseries, Roger Craig, the starter and losing pitcher, committed a balk that led to one of two St. Louis runs in the first inning. In addition, the Mets bounced into two double plays. LOUIS EFFRAT
Civic pride erupted in one lusty ovation after another at the Polo Grounds today as 12,447 baseball fans hailed the return of the prodigal National League.
In the eye of the hurricane of hurrahs were the New York Mets — a team conceived in frustration and dedicated to the proposition that this teeming metropolis is a two-league town as well as a summer festival.
Murky skies, autumn temperatures and a relentless drizzle kept the welcoming committee from reaching major league proportions.
However, what the crowd lacked in numbers it offset with enthusiasm, generously pouring out affection that had found no satisfactory outlet since the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers absconded to the West Coast at the close of the 1957 season.
Of those present on this historic Friday the 13th, only the Pittsburgh Pirates extended anything except felicitations and best wishes to Casey Stengel’s Mets. And despite profound cogitation and adroit personnel shuffling by the former Yankee manager, the Pirates won, 4-3. ROBERT TEAGUE
After 17 consecutive defeats, the New York Mets today emerged from the darkness by beating the Chicago Cubs, 4-3, in the first game of a doubleheader at Wrigley Field.
To Mets fans, the fact that the Cubs retaliated with a 3-2 victory in the second game, which was called after eight innings because of darkness, doesn’t matter. Neither does the fact that the Mets’ triumph came on an unearned run in the ninth inning. After 17 losses, a victory is a victory. Jay Hook, who needed last-inning relief by Craig Anderson, was the winning pitcher in the opener. He is the same right-hander who snapped the nine-game losing string with which the Mets opened the season.
Not since May 20, when they twice upended the Milwaukee Braves, had the Mets known victory. It was the longest losing streak ever for a New York team in the major leagues. LOUIS EFFRAT
Even in the autumn of their pathetic despair, the New York Mets cannot escape history. Each step and misstep seem destined to remain forever in the dusty recesses of major league archives, or at least in corner crevices in the minds of those who care.
Today, at the Polo Grounds, there were at least four such footnotes to baseball’s memorabilia. They obscured the Mets’ 116th defeat, a dreary 9-2 drubbing by the Chicago Cubs.
The saddest of the four is what Met officials disregard as a “negative statistic.” Al Jackson, one of the two best pitchers on the club, was clobbered for five runs on seven hits during the two and a third innings he pitched.
The slim left-hander was charged with his 20th loss of the season in 28 decisions. This is the first time since 1936 that a National League club has had two 20-game losers. Roger Craig, the other one, has a 9-23 won-lost record.
The Philadelphia Phillies turned the trick 26 years ago when Bucky Walters lost 21 and Joe Bowman 20. ROBERT LIPSYTE
Shed another tear for the New York Mets, who bowed, 6-3, to the Braves tonight and wound up with exclusive rights to another record, asterisk, footnote and all.
Casey Stengel’s men suffered their 118th defeat. This negative statistic made the Mets the losingest baseball team in modern history. The Philadelphia Athletics of 1916 lost 117 games.
The game drew only 3,239 fans, the smallest night-game turnout since the Braves moved to Milwaukee. Play was delayed 42 minutes after the top of the first inning because of rain.
With Henry Aaron’s three-run homer off Roger Craig supplying the crusher in the third, and the 23-year-old southpaw Denny Lemaster striking out 10 Mets, this was just another night in a long series of sorry nights for the first-year club. Craig, who departed for a pinch-hitter in the fourth, hung around long enough to absorb his 24th setback. LOUIS EFFRAT
It mattered not that the New York Mets won or lost, or even how they played the game today before 3,960 fans at Wrigley Field. For the record, though, the season’s final, for which Casey Stengel asked and obtained volunteers, went to the Cubs, 5-1.
It was the Mets’ 120th defeat in this, their initial campaign, and it left them in the National League cellar, 60 games from the top. The season was concluded as it had started — with a setback — after the Mets had been victimized by an eighth-inning triple play.
Had the season been fun?
“I would have to say no to that one,” Stengel said. LOUIS EFFRAT
Editors’ note: The 1962 Mets hold the record for most losses in a season in modern Major League Baseball history.
Chicago Cubs ace Jon Lester will be placed on the 10-day injured list Tuesday and miss "one, maybe two" starts with a hamstring strain, manager Joe Maddon announced Tuesday.
The left-hander got hurt while running the bases during the Cubs' six-run second inning Monday in Chicago's home opener against the Pittsburgh Pirates. He doubled home a run and later scored from second base on a single by Ben Zobrist.
"Sometimes when you have elite speed, these things can happen," Lester said Tuesday in a tongue-in-cheek message on Twitter.
Lester, 35, is 1-0 with a 2.57 ERA in three starts this season. The five-time All-Star is 178-98 with a 3.49 ERA in 14 major league seasons.
--The Cleveland Indians placed right-handed starter Mike Clevinger on the 10-day injured list, but he will be out for much longer.
Clevinger sustained a right upper back/Teres major muscle strain during his Sunday start. Manager Terry Francona called the injury "fairly significant" and told reporters it could be six to eight weeks "before we're even looking at him picking up a ball."
Clevinger (1-0) has not allowed a run in two starts this season while striking out 22 in 12 innings. He left the Sunday game after five innings.
--Pittsburgh right-hander Chris Archer, Cincinnati outfielder Yasiel Puig and Reds manager David Bell received suspensions for their roles in a bench-clearing brawl Sunday.
Archer received a five-game suspension for intentionally throwing a fastball behind the back of Derek Dietrich during the fourth inning in Pittsburgh. In his first at-bat, Dietrich had dropped his bat and stood to admire his towering 436-foot home run.
Puig drew a two-game suspension for "his aggressive actions during the incident," the league said in a statement. Bell, who raced onto the field to argue that Archer should have been ejected, received a one-game suspension for his actions.
--Former New York Mets outfielder Lenny Dykstra has sued ex-teammate Ron Darling, alleging defamation over comments Darling made about him in his new book.
TMZ Sports reported that the lawsuit was filed in New York. Dykstra wants Darling to pay damages for "defamation and intentional infliction of emotional distress."
Darling has stood by an allegation he made in his book that Dykstra shouted racial slurs at Boston Red Sox pitcher Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd in the 1986 World Series. Darling wrote that the insults were "worse than anything Jackie Robinson might have heard."
--The Boston Red Sox reinstated second baseman Dustin Pedroia from the injured list ahead of the team's home opener against the Toronto Blue Jays.
The club optioned infielder Tzu-Wei Lin to make room for Pedroia on the active roster. Pedroia started and went 1-for-4.
Pedroia, 35, began the season on the IL while battling inflammation in his surgically repaired left knee. He played in just three games in 2018 with 13 plate appearances. Before Tuesday, his most recent major league game was May 29, 2018, against the Blue Jays.
--The Washington Nationals reached an agreement with right-handed reliever Bud Norris on a minor league deal, pending results of a physical, according to The Athletic.
Norris, 34, spent spring training with the Toronto Blue Jays, posting a 9.00 ERA in three innings before injuring his forearm and getting released on April 2.
Norris spent the 2018 season in the St. Louis Cardinals' bullpen, going 3-6 with 28 saves and a 3.59 ERA in 64 appearances.
--A Texas woman has sued the Houston Astros for more than $1 million, contending her left index finger was injured permanently last summer when the team mascot shot a giveaway shirt in her direction using a "T-shirt cannon."
Jennifer Harughty said she was sitting behind third base last July 8 when the mascot, Orbit, launched a T-shirt at close range, resulting in a broken finger.
"It was a life-changing event that I think if it happened to anybody else ... they would feel the same way," Harughty told KTRK-TV in Houston.
--Field Level Media
A case before the Supreme Court this term could significantly affect whether densely populated cities like New York have the right to set their own gun policies.
At a glance, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association v. City of New York is a limited dispute. It pits residents who have “premises licenses,” which allow them to possess guns only at their homes, against a New York City ordinance that restricts their travel with their weapons to shooting ranges and clubs within city borders. If the petitioners — a gun advocacy group along with three of these individuals — prevail, those with premises licenses will be allowed to take their handguns with them to out-of-town ranges. Not a big deal, right? Actually, it is. The case has implications far broader than sport shooting. If the court decides against the city, New York City and other cities around the country could become far more dangerous places.
As a university professor and the research director of a Southern gun violence prevention organization, I’ve spent the past eight years tracking how state and local-level court rulings and legislation promoted as limited in scope lead to sweeping changes in the ways people buy, carry and use firearms. Time and again, I’ve found that seemingly modest relaxation of local gun laws like the one at issue in New York undercut the ability of cities and communities to set their own regulations, and alter ways that people live and die.
For instance, in 2007, pro-gun politicians in Missouri repealed a seemingly arcane 1921 law governing the purchase of concealable firearms. Supporters of the repeal (backed by the National Rifle Association) pitched the change as simply easing a tedious and outdated requirement that prospective gun buyers fill out paperwork in person at sheriff’s offices. But this modest action was the first rumbling of an avalanche. 
Missouri gun proponents built on the repeal to legalize “permitless carry” by anyone 19 years of age or older, nullify local gun-control ordinances, expand “stand your ground” protections and empower citizens to carry weapons into restaurants, bars, streets, schools and seemingly everyplace else. The police even lost the ability to disarm anyone carrying a firearm unless the individual was under arrest. The inability of local government to make gun laws threatened to turn Missouri into the “Wild West,” in the words of an exasperated City Council member in Webster Groves.
In Tennessee, N.R.A.-supported politicians pushed through legislation allowing guns in parks. Only after passage did people discover that the law weakened the state’s ability to restrict weapons at concerts and state fairs. A 2017 law in Arkansas permitted guns on college campuses — which made guns legal at Southeast Conference football games and other large sporting events. So-called guns-in-trunks laws in Ohio and some other states allowed employees to store guns and ammunition in their vehicles while at work — followed by jumps in the number of guns stolen out of cars. Sweeping open-carry legislation in Texas meant public libraries could not keep guns out of the stacks.
While these changes expand gun rights for certain people, they invariably lead to significant increases in  injuries and deaths. Right-to-carry laws correlate with increases in violent crime and rising homicide and suicide rates, and also raise the likelihood that incidents of conflict like road rage or domestic arguments will turn fatal. For instance, homicides committed with guns in Missouri increased by 25 percent in the three years after the 2007 repeal, and more Missouri guns were recovered in crimes in neighboring states. Gun suicides rose over this period as well. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that states with the weakest gun laws and highest rates of gun ownership invariably have the highest rates of overall gun mortality. A recent study found that they also have higher rates of mass shootings.
Beyond the direct health effects, allowing guns in public spaces changes how we interact with one another. My research shows that people become more wary when they think a stranger might be armed — a mistrust that fuels further gun sales. Racial tensions and stereotypes often accompany this anxiety. “I see white guys walking around Sam’s Club with guns on their hips,” an African-American man in Missouri told me, which he saw as armed racial intimidation.
In an ideal world, New York City might serve as a model for effective gun policy. Gun-related injuries and deaths have been falling for the past decade — not coincidentally, over the same period that the city got serious about gun laws. New York has remarkably low rates of gun trauma for a United States city of its size. Municipal and state laws and regulations also effectively limit gun trafficking. 
Much of this success results from policies that would most likely be in jeopardy should the Rifle and Pistol Association case go against New York — for instance, restrictions on where people can carry guns and prohibitions on tourists’ bringing weapons into the city. Perhaps most important, regulations governing how people carry guns in New York City differ from those applied in parts of the state that have long and respected traditions of firearm ownership, such as in upstate New York.
At stake in cases like Rifle and Pistol is the possible nationalization of disastrous policies from pro-gun states — not just loosened gun laws but also pre-emptions of how state or local governments can decide what works best. If the Supreme Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs in any one of these types of cases, the decision could signal that more significant gun control laws might not withstand legal challenges. Additionally, the justices could expand Second Amendment protections beyond the home, an issue left open in previous Supreme Court decisions, and could open the door to overturning longstanding laws governing concealed-carry, gun permitting and other restrictions enacted at the local and state levels.
The current composition of the court suggests we should brace for decisions that upend local and state regulations in favor of nationally mandated policies that make it ever easier for people to purchase and carry guns. The nomination of President Trump’s first court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, was buoyed by a $1 million ad campaign by the National Rifle Association. And his second appointee, Brett Kavanaugh, wrote a 2011 circuit court dissent in which he argued that Washington, D.C., could not ban semiautomatic rifles on its streets because the right to bear arms superseded its interest in public safety.
Missouri, Tennessee and Washington are not New York City. People are generally not allowed to carry guns around New York City, to safeguard the delicate and at times tense choreography that gives the city its charm. New Yorkers cram into crowded subway cars, brush by one another on busy sidewalks and drive haltingly through traffic-filled streets. This bustle of the everyday builds on often unspoken communal understandings of neighborliness and trust.
But imagine a New York where more and more of your neighbors carry guns. If the Supreme Court sides with the complainants in Rifle and Pistol, you won’t need to imagine.
Good morning.
(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
This week, my colleague Tim Arango wrote about the rocky, contentious rollout of a new law that requires police departments to make public more records about officers’ conduct.
The law suddenly made California — which has one of the nation’s highest rates of police shootings — among the most open states when it comes to police records. For decades, it has been one of the most secretive. 
The change has caused friction between law enforcement agencies and those pushing for transparency, including journalists and family members of people who have been killed by the police. 
That’s where Tim picks up the issue today: 
More than a quarter of a million dollars to provide public police records?
The San Diego Sheriff’s Department this week told KPBS that it would cost $354,524.22 to provide records on police shootings that the television channel had requested under a new state law.
That response, KPBS said, is “the latest development in a battle between law enforcement agencies and media organizations across the state.”
With lawsuits pending, how much departments can charge to provide records is a new front in what will most likely be a long, multifaceted fight.
Several stories were published this week about departments charging thousands of dollars to meet requests, something the American Civil Liberties Union argues undercuts the intent of the law. In Anaheim, a woman was asked to put down a $3,000 deposit when she asked for records from her son’s killing by the Anaheim police in 2009, according to Fox 11. The Voice of San Diego was told by the sheriff’s department it would have to pay $246,759.32 to obtain the records it wants, Sara Libby, the outlet’s managing editor, wrote on Twitter.
Some departments are citing the precedent of a case in which the National Lawyers Guild sued the California city of Hayward to obtain body camera footage. An appellate judge in that case ruled that those seeking records can be forced to pay the labor costs for officers to review records and make redactions.
But the California Supreme Court agreed to review the case, which means it’s no longer a binding precedent, said Alan Schlosser, senior counsel at the A.C.L.U. in Northern California, who is representing the lawyers’ guild in the case.
“Right now the issue is undecided,” said Mr. Schlosser, whose brief for the Supreme Court is due today.
At stake, he said, is the validity of the new law. Depending on its interpretation, the records “could remain secret unless you pay.”
For families who have lost loved ones in police shootings, the new law promised a measure of healing. But the debate means many of those families will have to keep waiting.
“It’s been 10 years now,” said Donna Hernandez, whose son, Kevin Wicks, was killed by the Inglewood police in 2008. “But it’s like yesterday.”
(We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)
• President Trump planned to declare a national emergency to get border wall funding after Congress approved a spending bill that doesn’t include the money he was seeking. Representative Nancy Pelosi suggested the president was setting a precedent for future Democratic presidents to act on issues like gun control. [The New York Times]
• After Gov. Gavin Newsom said he planned to significantly scale back the state’s long-looming bullet train project, the president seized on the chance to demand back $3.5 billion in federal funding for it. Not a chance, the governor replied. (It all happened on Twitter of course.) [Politico]
• Three female janitors from Fresno have sued the nation’s largest janitorial company, ABM, alleging that they endured years of harassment and instances of sexual assault by supervisors. [KQED]
• Wet weather lashed the state, especially the Bay Area, where residents lost power, traffic was snarled and trees were downed. [The San Francisco Chronicle]
• An artist, Lita Albuquerque, lost five decades of work, her home and her studio in the Woolsey Fire. Now, she is grappling with rebuilding her artistic legacy. [The Los Angeles Times]
• “I’d call it a poaching trend.” No, not animals — succulents that grow naturally on the California coast are the new It target for smugglers. [The New Yorker]
• LeBron James was supposed to make the Lakers great, pull them out of a slump. But the behemoth’s body betrayed him, the team has had months of drama and now the question is when things will turn around. [The New York Times]
• Update on the Great L.A. Times French Fry Controversy: There is now a bracket. [The Los Angeles Times]
• Thinking about buying a house with solar panels? Here’s what happened when a journalist did that in Santa Barbara. (Spoiler: Third-party ownership made for a real headache.) [Bloomberg Businessweek]
• “The encampment didn’t have a name. The residents just called it home.” As the state’s housing crisis sends more people into makeshift shelters, public agencies like Caltrans are using taxpayer money to raze them. But where do the residents end up? [The Desert Sun]
• A man tried to get a remote Lost Coast community to use an alternative silver currency. [Topic]
This week, our California restaurant critic, Tejal Rao, wrote for Valentine’s Day about falling in love — with Los Angeles. We’ll be off on Monday for Presidents’ Day, so enjoy this extra morsel and enjoy your holiday weekend:
I filed my first restaurant report from L.A. this week, an appreciation of city elders from classic taco stands to prime rib joints and diners. I took plenty of suggestions from readers for where to go, but my essay is by no means comprehensive — L.A.’s culinary history is too rich for that. Take Naka’s Broiler, founded by Katherine Banks in 1956, right across the street from Centennial High, a public school in Compton.
Over big diner breakfasts and double chili-cheeseburgers, Ms. Banks doled out life advice to her customers, many of them kids who went to school across the street, and later earned the nickname Mama Naka for nurturing her community. Naka’s was pioneering for another reason: It was one of the first African-American-owned restaurants in the city. As David Fisher, who took over the business from Ms. Banks, told The Compton Herald, “People should know this started as a black establishment, and still is.”
California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.
Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.
California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
MUMBAI, India — Every year, for 41 days in November and December, millions of barefoot pilgrims dressed in black and carrying bundles of offerings on their heads trek through the deep forest along the Pampa River and up the Sabari hills in the southern state of Kerala. At one of the summits is a shrine dedicated to the Hindu god Ayyappan, who, in his avatar as a prince, is often said to have defeated a terrifying demoness at this very spot.
The pilgrimage to the Sabarimala shrine, believed to be centuries old, has strict rules. Devotees are expected to observe 41 days of ritual austerities beforehand, trimming neither hair nor nails, and forgoing meat, alcohol and sex. Custom had it that any observant person could be admitted to the temple — except girls and women between the ages of 10 and 50, forbidden on the grounds that their presence dishonors the celibate Ayyappan.
But in September, the Supreme Court of India declared the exclusion of women at Sabarimala illegal, setting off an uproar that has become a monthslong battle over differences of caste, gender, party politics and history. 
On New Year’s Day, millions of women, led by Kerala’s Communist government, formed a human chain that stretched over 620 kilometers (385 miles) from the northernmost tip of the state, to the state capital, Thiruvananthapuram, in the south. Hours later, two women, aided by police officers, stepped into the Sabarimala shrine. 
Their entry was followed by violent protests, many carried out by young men with the backing of the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which governs India. The Sabarimala row has now engulfed not only Kerala, but the rest of the country. Religious sentiment and political opportunism have kept the issue in the spotlight, where it is likely to remain as the country braces for a parliamentary election this year.
India’s reputation as a brutally patriarchal society isn’t misbegotten, but it ignores how varied the status of women is here. In Kerala, because of early social justice movements and relatively enlightened governance, women have enjoyed freedoms not common elsewhere in the country. Over the 20th century, women in the state had freer access to health care and education than in many parts of India. Some communities had inheritance customs that gave women an unusual amount over control of property and private finances. 
But Kerala’s Hindus could also be more rigid and hierarchical than their counterparts elsewhere. The 19th-century reformer Swami Vivekananda called the state a “lunatic asylum” for its humiliating range of caste discriminations.
Sabarimala devotees often pride themselves on having escaped these fetters. The shrine is nominally open to persons of all religions. It is not known to have practiced caste exclusion, and its priests have said they will admit transgender people without a menstrual cycle. While other Ayyappan temples in India admit women of all ages, the faithful say that the exclusion of notionally fertile women is essential to the practices of this one shrine. Some female supporters of the ban even began a campaign called #ReadyToWait — that is, for menopause.
There are those who see, in the decision to allow women into the shrine, simply the determination to destroy an old custom. Before the Supreme Court judgment, after all, there had been no mass movement, no sustained outcry over the exclusion. But for others, the fight over the fate of the shrine is also a fight over which strain of Kerala’s history — its deep orthodoxy or its fierce progressivism — will shape its future.
Kerala’s Communist Party of India (Marxist) government, which supports women’s entry into the temple, has long argued that the ban on women is a powerful symbol of injustice. The fight for gender equality, Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said, is a part of class struggle. (The state’s Communists have historically taken a reformist approach to religion; in 1959, its first Communist government fell in part because it had antagonized the Catholic Church through its plans to secularize education.)
The Sabarimala conflict is also closely bound with India’s reckoning with caste. When India freed itself from the British Empire, nowhere did the clash of old and new sound more fiercely than in Hindu temples. My own dominant-caste grandparents, who grew up in Kerala, were devotees of temples where “untouchables” were not permitted to pray until 1947, when laws on temple entry began to change in parts of newly independent India. The Supreme Court passed the Sabarimala judgment in accordance with this egalitarian spirit.
And so, even if the fight over Sabarimala is about gender justice, it’s not coincidence that the battle lines have pitted dominant-caste Keralites, defending the exclusion, against what they see as rival interests. 
For the Women’s Wall demonstration on New Year’s Day, the Communists were joined by a rainbow coalition of social organizations representing Muslim women, Catholic nuns, marginal-caste associations, atheists, rationalists and many others. Dominant-caste associations, such as the powerful Nair Service Society, were conspicuously absent. Other parties like the Indian National Congress and the B.J.P., who initially welcomed the Supreme Court’s judgment, have reversed their positions to support the orthodoxy, sensing political opportunity — even as the B.J.P. has quietly enabled gender-neutral temple entry in states where it has power.
Meanwhile, in dominant-caste homes and temples, and on social media, some Keralites have done their best impression of a community under siege. Some of my own family scorned the hijab-clad Muslim women and the nuns turning out in feminist solidarity. The women who entered the Sabarimala shrine were widely suspected of being political plants. Last week, the temple priests closed the shrine to “purify” it of the women’s presence, a reminder of the monstrous notion of ritual pollution used to oppress marginal castes for generations — only this time it was seen as acceptable, even necessary.
The orthodoxy may yet prevail: The Supreme Court is scheduled this month to consider petitions requesting it to review its decision, and despite its show of strength, the Communist party is widely expected to have a battle on its hands in the coming election.
As for the women who entered the temple on New Year’s Day, they were smuggled in and out of the shrine like thieves in the night. But on the same day, Indians saw the face of a Malayali journalist, the videographer Shajila Ali Fathima, doggedly filming street rioting on that day with tears pouring down her face as protesters heckled and insulted her. A photograph of her, trending on news networks, seemed to embody both the spirit of the Women’s Wall and the agony of feminist struggle.
 The Congress politician Shashi Tharoor, criticizing the Supreme Court judgment some months ago, said it pitted India’s democracy against its constitutional morality. The Women’s Wall, where millions raised their hands in the name of equality was, if anything, a counterargument: that each is a guarantee of the other.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest. 
1. Bitter cold is spreading across much of North America in the wake of two storm systems that brought heavy snow from California to Maine and lethal tornadoes to the South.
Search and rescue teams and volunteers rushed to help in rural Lee County, Ala., where at least 23 people were killed in a “monster tornado,” including three children, and many more were injured. The twister was categorized as an EF-4, with 170-mile-per-hour winds. A mile wide, it carved a 28-mile track of devastation.
The death toll — higher than the nation’s total for all of last year — is expected to rise.
_____
2. The Democrats revealed the breadth of their efforts to investigate President Trump and his administration for possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power.
Jerrold Nadler, pictured above in February, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, sent demands for documents to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities including the White House; the Justice Department; the F.B.I.; Jared Kushner; David Pecker, chairman of The National Enquirer’s publisher; the Trump campaign; the Trump Foundation; and the presidential inaugural committee.
Also included: Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization official who was repeatedly named by Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, in his public testimony last week when asked who would have insight into any financial irregularities.
_____
3. More news from Washington:
Four Republican senators have now said they will support the resolution to block President Trump’s emergency declaration: Rand Paul of Kentucky joined Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina.
If Democrats remain united, the measure will pass in the Senate next week — a stern rebuke to Mr. Trump’s efforts to take control of federal spending to build his border wall. Above, a section in Nogales, Ariz.
Far from Washington, the reporter who wrote our investigation of sexual violence at the U.S.-Mexico border gave us a look at an unusual courtroom moment from 2017, when an undocumented woman who broke her silence about the smuggler who sexually assaulted her was comforted by the judge, who happened to be the daughter of migrant farmworkers.
_____
4. The field of Democrats vying to run for president in 2020 grew yet larger. Keep count with our candidate tracker.
John Hickenlooper, 67, a two-time Colorado governor and a pro-business social progressive, focused on a national “crisis of division” when he announced on “Good Morning America.”
But some of the hopefuls are focused on fighting climate change, notably Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, who joined the race last week.
And Senate Democrats, facing a showdown vote soon over the embattled “Green New Deal,” are preparing to make climate a central issue of their own 2020 campaigns.
_____
5. A trade deal with China is close, according to people with knowledge of the talks. Above, workers transport imported soybean products at a port in Nantong, Jiangsu Province.
The deal would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific if China alters economic policies that prevent American companies from operating there. In Beijing, the National People’s Congress is poised to approve a string of sweeping new foreign investment rules, but in legislation made up of many single-sentence broad pronouncements.
At the same time, the tug of war over the Chinese tech giant Huawei continues. Its financial chief, Meng Wanzhou, is awaiting an extradition hearing on Wednesday in Vancouver, where she has become both a subject of curiosity and a polarizing figure.
_____
6. News from the tech world.
Google, which has been accused before of underpaying women, conducted its annual study of internal pay imbalances. The results yielded a head-scratcher: more men than women being underpaid (and so more corrective raises for men).
The company said the study did not address broader issues of gender inequity, and that it also needed to weigh factors like whether newly hired employees were assigned to appropriate pay levels.
And our columnist Kevin Roose found a cautionary tale for the tech giants pursuing military contracts: Dow Chemical’s Vietnam-era agreement to produce napalm, one of the most notorious military contracts of the past century.
_____
7. Juan Guaidó, the Venezuelan opposition leader,  returned to the country to greet cheering crowds after violating a travel ban to leave in the first place.
“We just got through passport control and will head where our people are!” he posted on Twitter from the airport in Caracas. It was not immediately clear whether he would be detained by government security forces. President Nicolás Maduro’s government has said Mr. Guaidó violated restrictions on his travel and could face arrest.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration escalated its warnings toward the Maduro government, saying that any violence or threats would be met with a swift response.
_____
8. The second part of HBO’s “Leaving Neverland,” which details sexual abuse allegations against Michael Jackson, premieres tonight (8 p.m. Eastern).
It will immediately be followed, on HBO and OWN, by “After Neverland,” in which the director and the two men who accuse Jackson speak with Oprah Winfrey before an audience of abuse survivors.
After the first part of “Leaving Neverland” aired on Sunday, Jackson’s fans came out in full force to defend him on social media, blogs, message boards, podcasts and YouTube videos. The director, Dan Reed, called them “the Islamic State of fandom.”
Read our critic’s conclusion — that the documentary breaks the spell Michael Jackson once cast — and our recaps.
_____
9. Luke Perry, the actor who became famous in the ’90s as the bad-boy heartthrob Dylan McKay on “Beverly Hills, 90210,” died on Monday. He was 52.
His family said he had been hospitalized since suffering a stroke last Wednesday.
The writer and director Joss Whedon, who worked with Mr. Perry on the 1992 movie “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” said on Twitter that he was “Funny, committed, and always gracious. He shouldn’t be gone.” Read our appraisal.
Also,  Keith Flint, 49, a founding member of the British dance act the Prodigy, was found dead in England. A bandmate said he had killed himself.
_____
10. Finally, we end with a dash of paleontology.
Tyrannosaurus rex, once the dominant predator in North America, has been a focus of fascination since it was first uncovered in 1905.
And it has helped foster a surge in the science over the last 20 years. Rising numbers of researchers, new fossil finds and high-tech tools of analysis — CT scans, chemical analyses, new microscopic techniques and the like — have created “a golden age.”
Among the discoveries: T. rex emerged from much smaller tyrannosaurs late in the age of the dinosaurs, with a big brain, a shortish life span — and feathers.
Have a colossal evening.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Based on the way they have started this season, Collin McHugh, C.C. Sabathia and Trevor Williams should be in high demand for interviews. The three starting pitchers — McHugh for the Houston Astros, Sabathia for the Yankees and Williams for the Pittsburgh Pirates — had combined to make nine starts before Friday’s games, with a 2.08 E.R.A.
But McHugh, Sabathia and Williams enjoy asking questions, too. All three pitchers double as podcasters — a natural hobby, perhaps, for players who perform only once every five games.
“We have way more time,” Sabathia said on Wednesday after recording his latest episode with the bullpen coach Mike Harkey. “Plenty of time to do stuff like that.”
Sabathia and his co-host, Ryan Ruocco, a broadcaster for ESPN and the YES Network, release a new episode of “R2C2 Is Uninterrupted” every Thursday, speaking mostly with baseball, football and basketball players. Sabathia said his dream guest was the entertainer Will Smith, but lately he has settled for teammates like Gleyber Torres, J.A. Happ and James Paxton.
“It’s less of an interview, I feel like, just more of a conversation,” said Sabathia, who is also working for ESPN in his final year as a player. “You get people to relax a little more, you get better stories. People are just more comfortable in that setting.”
McHugh once kept a blog but transitioned to a new medium after listening to podcasts by the N.B.A. veteran JJ Redick of the Philadelphia 76ers, who regularly interviews players for a broadcast hosted by The Ringer.
“I’m not a huge basketball fan, but it was just the idea of hearing league insiders talk about things that maybe you’ve thought about but never were really able to know if it was true or put a real voice to it,” McHugh said. “To hear two basketball players talking about what life on the road is like, what traveling is like, all these different things and just getting to hear their voices, that made basketball more interesting to me.
“And I started thinking about: What is baseball missing? We’re missing this fan/human interaction. Everything’s getting really disconnected in terms of analytics, the fans and the players, there’s more of a gap than there’s ever been before. So what would be a way to bridge that?”
McHugh is the lone host of “The Twelve Six,” named for the curveball, which breaks from 12 to 6 on a clock face. McHugh — whose recent episode with Washington Nationals closer Sean Doolittle was especially compelling — combines the probing questions of a good reporter with the credibility of a fellow major leaguer, in a casual, one-on-one setting.
“As soon as you get more than one camera on a person, the honesty curve just goes way down, because guys are very reticent to say things that might be perceived the wrong way,” McHugh said. “But when it’s just two dudes sitting around, having a bottle of wine or a couple of beers and just talking, you’re way more likely to get more honest answers — which I think is a treasure, and a lot of capital in this day and age.”
As for Williams, he and his co-host, Pirates reliever Steven Brault, have recorded most of their episodes during the off-season and thrive on topics far afield: favorite candy bars, Christmas songs, Pixar movies and so on.
“Ours is more the fun side of players, reminding fans that we’re human beings, we’re not just baseball players and all we think about is baseball,” Williams said. “When we have guests on — other teammates or whoever — we first ask, ‘What are you passionate about, what’s a hobby that you have that isn’t baseball?’ So if it’s cooking: What’s your favorite food? If it’s sandwiches: What’s your favorite sandwich? Everyone has an opinion on their favorite things.”
Williams, 26, has helped lead a Pirates rotation that entered Friday’s games with a 2.09 E.R.A., easily the best in the National League. Like the Hall of Fame pitchers Tom Seaver and Don Sutton, who each started broadcasting while they were still playing, to prepare for life after baseball, Williams enjoys his current profession while planning for his next.
“Every time I’m in an interview, every time I’m in front of a TV camera, I feel like I’m trying out for my next job,” he said. “I’d love to be on TV, I’d love to do color commentary. But right now I’m a baseball player, and I’d like to do that for as long as I can.”
Everyone knew why Brad Keller drilled Tim Anderson with a fastball to the hip on Wednesday afternoon in Chicago. Anderson, the White Sox’ shortstop, had earlier homered off Keller, the Kansas City Royals’ pitcher, and flung his bat triumphantly toward his dugout as the ball sailed to the seats. Keller delivered his displeasure at 92 miles per hour, well below the head.
That should have been the end of it; Anderson did not charge the mound, and Keller’s message only served to put another runner on base for the White Sox. But the benches cleared and the umpire Joe West ejected four people, including Keller and Anderson, who were both suspended by Major League Baseball on Friday.
Keller was given a five-game suspension and Anderson one, for using racially charged language directed at Keller in the immediate aftermath. (Keller is white and Anderson is black.) But the incident seemed to undercut M.L.B.’s #LetTheKidsPlay advertising campaign, which is meant to encourage the kind of self-expression that provoked the Royals to retaliate.
Most players do not punctuate home runs with bat flips. But if some choose to celebrate that way, Anderson said, it should be a good thing. Anderson, 25, said younger players and fans can relate.
“We’re in a new generation, a new wave, and this is the new school,” he said in an interview Thursday morning. “I get the old-school vibe, but this is the new school. We’re going to try and switch the vibe. The kids look up to us, and if we go out and play with a lot of energy and play to have fun, I think the kids would enjoy the game a lot more.”
Anderson, who was hitting .422 through Thursday, said his reaction to the home run had nothing to do with the Royals. He was simply trying to inspire his team, which is built around young players like Eloy Jimenez and Yoan Moncada. He cited an N.B.A. player, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, as a model for how to act while in uniform.
“I want to be the Westbrook of baseball,” Anderson said. “He goes out and plays with a high level every night and couldn’t care less what anybody else has to say. It’s really just bringing that energy and that positive vibe to the squad. That’s what I like to do, and I’m going to continue to do it. I’m not going to change.”
Anderson has a charity — Anderson’s League of Leaders — that promotes community service and youth outreach in Chicago and his hometown, Tuscaloosa, Ala. Inspired by the death of his best friend, Branden Moss, to gun violence in 2017, Anderson tries to show leadership on the field by staying true to himself, even at the cost of a fastball to the hip.
“I like to have fun,” he said, “and I’m not going to let anybody stop that.”
When the Cincinnati Reds last won the World Series, in 1990, they clinched the title on a foul popout to first base by Carney Lansford of the Oakland Athletics. Lansford was a former batting champion, but hitting a popout was no reason to be ashamed. For most players, it is routine.
Joey Votto, of course, is not like most players. Votto, the Reds’ first baseman, popped out to first base on Wednesday for the very first time in his career — in his 6,829th plate appearance. That leaves the Arizona Diamondbacks’ Alex Avila as the current leader in most career plate appearances without popping out to first, at a mere 3,285 through Thursday.
Votto, a six-time All-Star, was hitting just .228 after the popout, which came in Los Angeles against the Dodgers’ Pedro Baez. C. Trent Rosecrans, the Reds’ beat writer for The Athletic, waited for Votto for 56 minutes after the game.
Votto was not simply lingering in the lunchroom. To Votto, the popout was a sign that his technique was badly off.
“There’s a reason I just spent an hour hitting after a day game after a night game,” Votto said. “It’s not good. It’s definitely not a good thing. I rarely do that. That’s why when I saw it, I was like, ‘Ugh, I’ve got a lot of work to do.’ But I’m going to put in the work. I’m confident it’s going to come.”
One major leaguer actually hits into fewer pop-ups than Votto. According to MLB.com, Votto has popped up in 1.3 percent of his career plate appearances (almost always to the left of second base). Impressive, but not the best. Among hitters with at least 1,000 career trips to the plate, the Milwaukee Brewers’ Christian Yelich, at 1.2 percent, is the least likely to pop out.
For Votto, at least, the post-pop-out-to-first phase of his career could not have started any better. After his long practice session on Wednesday, he started Thursday’s game in San Diego with a leadoff home run.
MEXICO CITY — President Trump’s plan to cut off aid to three Central American countries for failing to stop the flow of migrants toward the United States breaks with years of conventional wisdom in Washington that the best way to halt migration is to attack its root causes.
The decision also runs counter to the approach advocated by President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico, among others. Mr. López Obrador has been lobbying Washington to join his government in investing billions of dollars in Central America and southern Mexico, arguing that economic development and reducing violence are the most effective ways to encourage Central Americans to remain home.
Cutting off aid is “shooting yourself in the foot,” said Adriana Beltrán, the director of citizen security at the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights research group that tracks aid closely.
But the president has become incensed at the growing numbers of families arriving at the southern border asking for asylum. His administration notified Congress late Friday that it intends to reprogram $450 million in aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador and has already sent instructions to embassies in the region.
“No money goes there anymore,” he told reporters on Friday. “We’re giving them tremendous aid. We stopped payment.”
While legislators have tools to push back against that decision, it is very possible that some, if not all of that aid, could be suspended for now.
The decision turns American policy in the region on its head. Not only will it cut development and humanitarian assistance, but it will also halt joint law enforcement efforts, such as anti-gang units vetted by the United States, that had been supported by Republicans and the Trump administration until now, said Juan S. Gonzalez, a former deputy assistant secretary of state in the Obama administration.
Indeed, just a day before Mr. Trump made the comments, the United States signed a border security agreement with the three Central American governments intended to increase cooperation against human trafficking and organized crime.
Mr. Gonzalez said the aid withdrawal “undermines our interest,” adding that “we have actually had success against gangs in the United States by cooperating with regional law enforcement. It helped us prevent increased gang flow.”
The decision also caught Mexico off guard. The government there was already rattled on Friday by Mr. Trump’s threat to close parts or all of the border as early as next week in response to the immigration surge and this was an added blow.
Advocates argue that stopping aid will only aggravate the root causes that drive migrants to leave the three countries, where a long history of corrupt governments and rigid inequities perpetuate deep poverty.
Gang violence, drug trafficking, and abusive security forces — some of it the result of American policies in the region that focused on fighting communism in the 1980s and drug trafficking since the 1990s — have led to the highest homicide rates in the world outside of war zones.
The Obama administration ramped up aid after a surge of Central American children arrived at the Texas border in 2014. Aid to the region doubled in 2016 to about $750 million, according to the Washington Office on Latin America.
Ms. Beltrán, a director of the group, said that aid after 2016 not only focused on violence and insecurity but reflected an understanding that “you needed to address the issues of governance and corruption, and you needed to create economic opportunities and build institutions.”
With significant aid reaching the region only in 2017, there has not been much time for it have a strong impact.
“There are long-term challenges that are going to need a long-term sustainable solution,” Ms. Beltrán said. “You can have a discussion as to how we can ensure that the aid is effective, that assistance is not going to supporting corrupt governments.”
Much of the humanitarian aid is distributed through local governments and non-governmental organizations. Cutting off that help is “illogical and vindictive,” said Tim Rieser, a senior foreign policy aide to Sen. Patrick Leahy, the vice chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
But cutting off direct aid to the national governments of the Northern Triangle countries may be long overdue, he added, because they are part of the problem.
“Senator Leahy does not believe we should support governments that care more about enriching themselves and staying in power than addressing the needs of their own people,” he added, pointing to efforts by the governments of Honduras and Guatemala to control the courts and thwart anti-corruption efforts.
The Trump administration has lifted some of the pressure as the governments of Guatemala and Honduras cultivated conservative allies in Washington and presented themselves as allies in drug interdiction.
To win favor with Washington, Guatemala followed the Trump administration in moving its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem last year. Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández said last week that his government was opening a trade office in Jerusalem, which he called “a first step” toward moving his country’s embassy.
There was no official response from Central American governments on Saturday. Ebal Díaz, the minister of the presidency, told Radio América, a Honduran broadcaster, that American aid was largely directed to nongovernmental humanitarian and aid groups.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday pointed to nearly five dozen previous instances in which presidents of both parties have declared emergencies as justification for his invocation of extraordinary powers to build his border wall. But there is no precedent for what he has just done.
None of the times emergency powers have been invoked since 1976, the year Congress enacted the National Emergencies Act, involved a president making an end run around lawmakers to spend money on a project they had decided against funding. Mr. Trump, by contrast, is challenging the bedrock principle that the legislative branch controls the government’s purse.
“On the surface, this ‘Oh, other presidents do this, too’ line seems logical,” said Chris Edelson, an American University government professor and author of a 2013 book, “Emergency Presidential Power: From the Drafting of the Constitution to the War on Terror.” “But there is no example where a president asked for funding for something from Congress, Congress said, ‘No,’ and the president said, ‘I’ll use emergency powers to do it anyway.’”
Mr. Trump sought to evade that distinction on Friday when he announced his border wall decision at a news conference in the White House Rose Garden. He portrayed his invocation of emergency powers as a routine use of executive authority that was never controversial when his predecessors did it.
“I’m going to be signing a national emergency and it’s been signed many times before,” he said. “It’s been signed by other presidents. From 1977 or so, it gave the presidents the power. There’s rarely been a problem. They sign it. Nobody cares.”
But a list of about 59 previous times when presidents since the Carter administration have invoked emergency powers, compiled for a recent study of presidential emergency powers for the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law, shows none that look like Mr. Trump’s declaration in crucial respects.
The overwhelming majority of those instances were moves by presidents to impose sanctions on various foreign officials and groups — freezing their assets and making it illegal for Americans to do business with them — for wrongdoing like human rights violations, terrorism or transnational narcotics trafficking. They attracted no controversy because Congress has wanted the executive branch to operate that way.
Congress has also enacted a statute that gave presidents, in a declared emergency “that requires use of the armed forces,” the power to redirect military construction funds to build projects related to that use. It is that statute that Mr. Trump is relying upon, and his administration argues that this means he is exercising authority that lawmakers wanted the presidency to be able to wield.
But Elizabeth Goitein, who oversaw the Brennan Center study, pointed to the widespread dispute over whether, as a matter of empirical reality, there exists a true emergency on the border that would be resolved by a wall, as well as to the fact that Congress already made clear it did not intend to spend extra billions of dollars on Mr. Trump’s wall.
“There is nothing approaching an ‘emergency’ in this situation, no matter how loose a definition you use,” she said. “And Congress has made it as clear as it can that it does not want the president to use funds for this purpose, so this is the president using emergency powers to thwart the will of Congress. That is very different from how emergency powers have been used in the past.”
In a briefing with reporters on Friday, the White House identified only two previous instances in which presidents relied on emergency powers to spend funds on something different than what Congress had appropriated them for. Both involved military construction associated with wars: one under President George Bush’s Persian Gulf war emergency declaration, the other under President George W. Bush’s emergency declaration after the Sept. 11 attacks. Neither funded projects that Congress had previously weighed and rejected.
The idea behind emergency powers laws is that Congress wanted the president to have standby authorities to activate in a crisis, when the government must respond quickly. The Brennan Center study identified 123 such statutes.
In the 1976 act, Congress turned off numerous old “emergencies” that had been lingering for many years and created a process presidents must follow when invoking such statutes. But the overhaul did not include defining limits on when a president could decide that a qualifying emergency existed, preserving White House flexibility.
One check against abuse of that power eroded quickly: Congress had intended for lawmakers to have the power to overrule a president’s declaration by passing a resolution with a simple majority vote. After a 1983 Supreme Court ruling, however, presidents gained the power to veto such resolutions. That weakened Congress’s hand because it takes two-thirds of both chambers to override a veto.
The other check against abuse has been self-restraint: Presidents have self-regulated and not invoked emergency powers to achieve policy goals Congress had rejected — or claimed that a qualifying crisis existed in disputed circumstances.
Much of the criticism of Mr. Trump’s move has centered on fears that he was expanding executive power by establishing a precedent that future presidents — including Democrats seeking liberal ends — may someday use to circumvent Congress, too. On Friday, Mr. Trump dismissed a question from a reporter about that worry.
“The people that say we create precedent — well, what do you have, 56, or a lot of times — well, that’s creating precedent, and many of those are far less important than having a border,” he said.
But several legal experts said there was another possible long-term consequence that had received less discussion: by violating that norm of self-restraint, Mr. Trump may prompt Congress to eventually take back some of that power from the presidency — at least in a post-Trump era, when a succeeding president might be willing, or believe that it is politically necessary, to sign such a bill.
Notably, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, on Friday accused Mr. Trump of “a gross abuse of power that subverts the key principles laid out in the Constitution” over which branch controls the appropriation of funds, and announced an investigation. In 1976, it was the House Judiciary Committee that drafted the National Emergencies Act.
Stephen I. Vladeck, a law professor at the University of Texas, Austin, said that legislators may react to Mr. Trump’s move by enacting a new overhaul of those laws that tightened restrictions on when a president could use them.
Lawmakers could, for example, impose a strict definition of what qualifies as an emergency, taking away presidential flexibility to deal with unforeseen circumstances. Congress could also attach “sunset” clauses to emergency statutes, so that the president's special powers would automatically deactivate after a month or two without new action by lawmakers to extend them.
“The risk the president runs is that Congress will take away much, if not most, of the discretion it’s given to the president,” Mr. Vladeck said. “And then the concern is that Congress could hamstring a future president from having all the tools he or she might need to react to a future emergency. So a short-term win for the president could become a long-term loss for the presidency.”
LOS ANGELES — Walt Disney Co unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix Inc. 
The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the "Star Wars" galaxy, "Toy Story" creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disney's libraries will include: 
-Classic Disney animated movies such as "101 Dalmatians" and "Bambi" 
-The entire Pixar catalog including "A Bug's Life" and "Cars" 
-"Captain Marvel" and three other Marvel films 
-The first and second "Star Wars" trilogies
-Live-action movies such as the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series, "Mary Poppins" and "The Sound of Music."
-More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as "Hannah Montana"
Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service. According to the company, that will include: 
STAR WARS
A new season of animated series "Star Wars: The Clone Wars"
A live-action "Star Wars" series called "The Mandalorian," developed by Jon Favreau
A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" 
MARVEL
A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston
A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch
ANIMATION
"Monsters at Work," a series inspired by Pixar hit "Monsters Inc." Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
MOVIES
Remakes of Disney classics such as "Lady and the Tramp" and "Sword in the Stone" 
"Noelle," a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader
"Togo," starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog 
TELEVISION
A new "High School Musical" series
"Diary of a Female President," a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States
NON-FICTION
"Marvel's 616," a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world
"Be Our Chef," a food competition show in which families compete and the winner's dish will be served at Walt Disney World
"Rogue Trip," a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit
 (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler)
BEIJING — China’s diplomatic clash with Canada escalated sharply on Monday, when a Chinese court sentenced a Canadian to death for drug smuggling at a one-day retrial ordered weeks after a Chinese executive’s arrest in Canada.
In announcing the death penalty against the Canadian, Robert Lloyd Schellenberg, the court, in the northeast city of Dalian, gave no indication that his sentence might be reduced to prison time.
Mr. Schellenberg’s fate could become a volatile factor in diplomacy between Beijing and Ottawa in the aftermath of the arrest by Canadian authorities of a Chinese technology executive in British Columbia last month — a move that incensed the Chinese government.
Mr. Schellenberg had appealed a 15-year prison sentence for smuggling methamphetamines. But during his retrial, against the backdrop of sharply increased tensions between China and Canada, the court sided with prosecutors who called for capital punishment.
“The evidence is compelling and ample, and the criminal charges are well founded,” the Dalian Intermediate People’s Court said of Mr. Schellenberg’s death sentence, according to an official account published online. “Schellenberg was a principal culprit.”
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, reacting to the death sentence, said his government would try to intercede in Mr. Schellenberg’s case.
“I will say it is of extreme concern to us as a government, as it should be to all our international friends and allies that China has chosen to begin to arbitrarily apply death penalty” in cases like this one, he told reporters in Ottawa.
Mr. Schellenberg’s aunt, Lauri Nelson-Jones, said by telephone from Maryland that the decision was the “worst-case scenario.”
“I didn’t think we’d get a verdict this fast,” Ms. Nelson-Jones said. “It’s shocking, especially from a North American view of how things go.”
She later issued a statement on behalf of Mr. Schellenberg’s family, calling on Mr. Trudeau’s governmment to protect him and asking Canadians to “pray for the safe return of our loved one.”
At the trial on Monday, the prosecutors and judges laid out an account of a failed drug-smuggling operation starkly at odds with Mr. Schellenberg’s testimony.
He had told the court that he was a “tourist visiting China and framed by criminals,” China’s central television broadcaster said in an online report.
But the court saw Mr. Schellenberg as a skilled participant in the smuggling scheme, which involved trying to ship nearly 500 pounds of methamphetamines to Australia in pellets stuffed inside tires.
The court report said Mr. Schellenberg had assessed the equipment for the planned crime — including tires, tubes and containers — and suggested delaying the drug shipment to allow for more preparation.
The Chinese executive arrested in Canada, Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Huawei, a Chinese telecommunications equipment manufacturer, is out on bail and under house arrest in Canada until the courts there decide whether she can be extradited to the United States.
American prosecutors have accused her of fraudulent bank transactions related to business deals with Iran that violated United States sanctions.
Before the retrial, Mr. Schellenberg’s family had voiced fears that he would become a bargaining chip for Beijing to seek Ms. Meng’s release, Ms. Nelson-Jones said.
“He’s become a pawn,” she said.
Mr. Schellenberg’s sentence must still be examined and ratified by the country’s highest court, the Supreme People’s Court.
Last month, the Chinese authorities arrested two other Canadians — Michael Kovrig, a former diplomat, and Michael Spavor, a businessman — accusing them of “endangering national security.”
The police, however, have not announced any specific allegations, and the two men remain in secret detention, denied visits from lawyers and family members.
On Monday, Canada updated its travel advisory for China, urging Canadians to “exercise a high degree of caution in China due to the risk of arbitrary enforcement of local laws.”
Also Monday, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Hua Chunying, said Mr. Kovrig did not have diplomatic immunity, rejecting a suggestion by Mr. Trudeau on Friday that Mr. Kovrig enjoyed such protection.
Mr. Kovrig, who works for the International Crisis Group, is on leave from Global Affairs Canada, the country’s foreign service. The organization, which gives advice on solving conflicts, has denied that Mr. Kovrig did anything to harm China.
Some foreign experts have said China’s swift action in all three cases appeared intended to pressure Canada to free Ms. Meng and return her to China, rather than sending her to the United States. The prospect that Mr. Schellenberg could be executed created a potent threat, they said.
In Mr. Schellenberg’s first trial, the court took over two and half years to announce a 15-year prison sentence, but this time the court took less than a day to try, convict and sentence him to death, Donald C. Clarke, a specialist in Chinese law at the George Washington University, noted in an email.
“We should draw the conclusion that the Chinese government very obviously wants us to draw: this is a political case,” Professor Clarke said. “Schellenberg’s fate will have nothing to do with his individual guilt or innocence.”
China’s president and Communist Party leader, Xi Jinping, could, in tandem with China’s national legislature, pardon Mr. Schellenberg.
“Obviously, however, if Xi Jinping wants something to happen in this case, it will happen,” Professor Clarke said. “The word would go out and the courts would do as they were told.”
Guy Saint-Jacques, a former Canadian ambassador to China, said Mr. Schellenberg’s second trial seemed blatantly orchestrated and political because of the timing, the government appeal of the original sentence and the decision to allow foreign journalists into the courtroom.
“If they would like to show transparency, they would have started years ago,” he said.
Mr. Saint-Jacques, ambassador from 2012 to 2016, said that during that time, two Canadians were sentenced to death for drug crimes, and executed, despite many pleas for their lives made directly by the then Canadian prime minister.
China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has denied that Mr. Schellenberg’s trial and the arrests of Mr. Kovrig and Mr. Spavor are related to Ms. Meng’s arrest. At a news briefing on Friday, a spokesman for the ministry, Lu Kang, said critics should not undermine Chinese law for political purposes.
But Chinese officials have diluted that argument by suggesting that their government was engaged in “defense” after the arrest of Ms. Meng.
In an op-ed for a Canadian newspaper last week, the Chinese ambassador to Ottawa, Lu Shaye, said the calls to release Mr. Kovrig and Mr. Spavor amounted to an assertion of “Western egotism and white supremacy.”
Mr. Schellenberg, 36, grew up in Abbotsford, British Columbia, surrounded by a large extended family.
Before his arrest in 2014, he had been an adventurous traveler who used earnings from working in Alberta’s oil fields to pay for his travels in Asia, Ms. Nelson-Jones said by telephone. He kept in irregular contact with his family, she said.
“He called and told his dad — my brother — that he was heading off to China, and it was just like, ‘O.K., whatever,’” she said. About a month later, the family learned he had been arrested.
Mr. Schellenberg was detained for 15 months before his first trial, and it took an additional 32 months before a court declared him guilty and sentenced him to 15 years in prison.
At Mr. Schellenberg’s appeal hearing last month, prosecutors said emerging evidence indicated he had played a bigger role in a drug trafficking network, and so his initial sentence was too light.
At the retrial, prosecutors produced a witness, Xu Qing, to testify against the Canadian. But Mr. Schellenberg said he was unwittingly recruited into the scheme by Mr. Xu, reported Agence France-Presse, one of three foreign news outlets allowed into the court.
In recent years, Chinese courts have repeatedly made the point that foreigners will not be treated differently from Chinese nationals in drug convictions. Even so, death sentences for citizens of Western countries are rare in these cases.
Between 2009 and 2015, China executed at least 19 foreigners for drug trafficking, according to John Kamm, chairman of the Dui Hua Foundation, a group based in San Francisco that monitors human rights in China.
Mr. Kamm said he was astonished by the speed and severity of the sentence against Mr. Schellenberg.
Mr. Kamm noted that Hu Xijin, the editor of the Global Times, a nationalist Chinese newspaper, had warned before the sentencing that if Canada went ahead with Ms. Meng’s extradition to the United States, “China’s revenge will be far worse than detaining a Canadian.”
Oakland Athletics slugger Khris Davis signed a contract extension Thursday that covers the 2020 and '21 seasons for a reported total of $33.5 million. Davis was scheduled to become a free agent in November.
Davis' 143 home runs since the start of the start of the 2016 season are the most in baseball over that span -- 19 more than second-place Giancarlo Stanton.
Davis, acquired from the Milwaukee Brewers in a 2016 trade, has a league-leading 10 home runs in 77 at-bats this season. Home runs have become the 31-year-old's niche, as Davis has produced three consecutive 40-plus homer seasons since joining the A's.
--The Detroit Tigers placed left fielder Christin Stewart on the 10-day injured list due to a strained quadriceps muscle.
Stewart, 25, sustained the injury Tuesday while running the bases in the ninth inning of the Tigers' 5-3 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates. An MRI revealed no structural damage, but bruising and soreness limited his mobility.
Stewart is batting .222 with three homers and a team-high 13 RBIs through 16 games. The Tigers recalled infielder/outfielder Brandon Dixon from Triple-A Toledo to fill the vacant roster spot.
--The Chicago White Sox placed starting pitcher Lucas Giolito on the 10-day injured list with a strained left hamstring, the club announced.
Giolito, 24, sustained the injury Wednesday during the third inning of his outing against the Kansas City Royals. He had thrown 2 2/3 scoreless innings with five strikeouts to that point. Giolito is 2-1 with a 5.30 ERA and 23 strikeouts over four starts this season, his third with the White Sox.
The White Sox recalled outfielder Ryan Cordell and right-handed pitcher Carson Fulmer from Triple-A Charlotte. They optioned struggling outfielder Daniel Palka to Charlotte after Wednesday's game.
--Field Level Media
How many studies do you have to throw at the vaccine hysterics before they quit? How much of a scientific consensus, how many unimpeachable experts and how exquisitely rational an argument must you present?
That’s a trick question, of course. There’s no magic number. There’s no number, period. And that’s because the anti-vaccine crowd (or anti-vaxxers) aren’t trafficking in anything as concrete, mundane and quaint as facts. They’re not really engaged in a debate about medicine. They’re immersed in a world of conspiracies, in the dark shadows where no data can be trusted, nothing is what it seems and those who buy the party line are pitiable sheep.
And, boy, are they living at the right time, when so much information and misinformation swirl by so quickly that it’s easy to confuse the two and even easier to grab hold and convince yourself of whatever it is you prefer to believe. With Google searches, you find the ostensible proof you seek. On social media, you bask in all the affirmation you could possibly want.
The parents who are worried or sure about grave risks from vaccines reflect a broader horror that has flickered or flared in everything from the birther movement to “Pizzagate,” that nonsense about children as Democratic sex slaves in the imagined basement of a Washington pizza joint. Their recklessness and the attendant re-emergence of measles aren’t just a public health crisis. They’re a public sanity one, emblematic of too many people’s willful disregard of evidence, proud suspicion of expertise and estrangement from reason.
[Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]
Again and again, until blue in the face, medical authorities have debunked the renegade assertion that there’s a link between the M.M.R. vaccine, so named because it inoculates against measles, mumps and rubella, and autism. On Tuesday, a group of Danish researchers who looked at more than 650,000 children over 10 years announced that they had found no such association.
Again and again, until out of breath, those same medical authorities have also explained why making sure that all or nearly all children are vaccinated is so crucial: It creates a critical mass of resistance, known as herd immunity, that doesn’t give a disease the chance to spread.
Nonetheless, enough parents plug their ears that the World Health Organization lists “vaccine hesitancy” — a euphemism if ever I heard one — among 10 global health threats in 2019.
They choose their own alternative facts. Take Darla Shine, the wife of Bill Shine, who just announced his resignation as the White House communications director. Last month, amid alarms about new cases of measles, she took to Twitter with the cockamamie claim that not being vaccinated and coming down with measles or mumps was a big-picture plus, a hardiness builder that could help a person fight cancer down the line.
“I had the #Measles #Mumps #Chickenpox as a child and so did every kid I knew,” she tweeted, adding that her own kids were, regrettably, vaccinated. “They will never have the lifelong natural immunity I have. Come breathe on me!” Thanks but no thanks. I suspect my breath is better spent elsewhere.
A week and a half ago, a Republican state representative in Arizona said on her Facebook page that pressure on parents to vaccinate children “is not based on American values but, rather, Communist.” Bet you didn’t know that the original symbol of the Russian Revolution wasn’t a hammer and sickle. It was a syringe.
I shouldn’t joke, and I should add that anti-vaxxers run the political gamut. They’re on the left, their professed concern for social welfare proven hollow by the risk that their unvaccinated children pose to newborns and others who haven’t yet been — or can’t be — vaccinated. They’re on the right, among people who see the government and its edicts as oppressive forces. Paranoia has no partisan affiliation.
I should also add that alternative facts had currency long before Kellyanne Conway christened them such and that junk science, nutty hypotheses and showy apostasies have been around forever. Humans aren’t rationalists. We’re romantics, and the world is wondrous when you believe that you belong to some brave and special tribe and have experienced enlightenment — about the assassination of John F. Kennedy, about the existence of extraterrestrials, about the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center, about vaccines — that all the less perceptive, more gullible conformists out there simply can’t comprehend.
But there are differences now that make the cranks that much more baffling, numerous and pernicious. For starters, they fly ever more stubbornly in the face of sophisticated research and hard-earned knowledge. Beneficiaries of wisdom that prior generations lacked, they toss it away, wasting and mocking progress itself.
At the same time, in many educational circles, there’s as much talk of students’ individual truths as of the truth. Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at Harvard’s Shorenstein Center, said that social science and history courses increasingly emphasize that truth is situational and that “very few things are always true all the time.” That healthy skepticism can turn unhealthy when it leads to the rejection of incontestable realities. There’s “a crisis of authority, a crisis of expertise,” Donovan told me.
There’s also a man in the White House, at the Resolute Desk, who makes grand pronouncements based on random conversations; implores Americans to distrust traditional institutions and conventional sources of information; and promotes conspiracy theories (millions of illegal votes, a celebration among Muslims in Jersey City on 9/11, and on and on). He has specifically echoed and validated the apprehensions of anti-vaxxers. Whether he’s symptom or cause doesn’t matter. He’s dangerous either way.
Then there’s the internet, which turbocharges everything. “I don’t want to say it’s the only force, because there was Holocaust denialism before the internet — there was even AIDS denialism before the internet — but it’s an enormous, enormous force: the most effective echo chamber in the history of mankind,” said Michael Specter, a staff writer for The New Yorker who is the author of the 2009 book “Denialism,” about irrational thinking. He added, “It’s very difficult for people, no matter how well educated they are, to parse what’s the wheat and what’s the chaff on the internet.”
For example, anti-vaccine propaganda — some of which was spread by Russian trolls and bots as part of their sowing of discord before the 2016 election — can look as official and trustworthy as legitimate information. “And as websites get better and Twitter becomes something that people not only look at but rely on, it’s very difficult to get away from falsehoods and conspiracies,” Specter told me. “We’re living in a world where facts are just another element of your decision-making process.” 
One of the best explanations of that came in a 2016 essay in The Times Magazine by Jonathan Mahler, who noted “a radical new relationship between citizen and truth.” He wrote that millions of people “are abandoning traditional sources of information, from the government to the institutional media, in favor of a D.I.Y. approach to fact-finding.”
They turn to the internet, which is both a hall of mirrors and an overstuffed bazaar. It lets them customize their input and thus tailor their reality, which is reinforced by the like-minded company they keep online. They become surer that climate change is a hoax, that the deep state plots against the bold warriors who threaten it, that a fake Melania Trump is sometimes used as a substitute for the actual one. And they open the floodgates to so much fiction that fact is swept away.
Where’s the vaccine against that?
If you think the Sunshine State is all about theme parks and frying on the beaches, you probably haven’t been to St. Augustine. In the oldest, continuously occupied European settlement in North America, visitors get the glorious beaches along with a healthy dose of unexpected delights: Spanish colonial and Moorish-style architecture, interesting museums and history galore. Founded as a Spanish colonial outpost in 1565 — 55 years before the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock — the Ancient City feels vaguely European, albeit with better air-conditioning. It’s also a distinctly American place where you can indulge in a butter pecan milkshake; explore the city’s 144-block Historic District on foot or bike; and, if you’re willing to step out of town for a few hours, play the imposing 17th island green that the world’s best golfers will navigate at the upcoming Player’s Championship in nearby Ponte Vedra Beach. The water at the city’s fabled Fountain of Youth might not transport you back to your salad days, but there’s enough magic on St. Augustine’s brick streets to make you a believer.
1) 3 p.m. Magic waters
We’ll never know for sure whether Juan Ponce de Léon was looking for the Fountain of Youth when he sighted what he thought was an island north of St. Augustine that he named “La Florida” or “Place of Flowers” on Easter Sunday, March 27, 1513. In any case, you can visit a site near to where Ponce landed that’s been referred to as the Fountain of Youth for more than a century. In 1909, Luella Day “Diamond Lil” MacConnell, a Chicago physician who made a fortune during the Klondike Gold Rush, began to market “Fountain of Youth” water that some maintain was from a well dug in 1875. At first drink, the Ponce de Léon’s Fountain of Youth Archaeological Park might seem kitschy. But the lush 15-acre park overlooking the Matanzas River and St. Augustine Inlet is actually a delightful and informative place to pass a few hours among the majestic live oak trees and preening peacocks. The $2.50 Fountain of Youth spring water bottles sold in the gift shop make a great souvenir, but be forewarned, the “magical” water tastes pretty foul. (Note: what looks like a snack bar in the parking lot is an excellent place for lunch — Smoked Southern BBQ, run by a James Beard-nominated chef.) 
In 1586, the Englishman Sir Francis Drake and his crew of 2,500 buccaneers raided the city, burning it to the ground. A series of subsequent pirate raids led to the construction of the Castillo de San Marcos, a massive stone fortification (that also happens to be a magical place to watch the sunrise). Continue your history lesson at the easy-to-miss St. Augustine Pirate & Treasure Museum (877-467-5863), tucked away on a side street. It brings to life St. Augustine’s back story, and the stories of pirates like Captain Kidd, who had to be hung twice, because the noose snapped the first time. Founded by Pat Croce, the former president of the Philadelphia 76ers, the museum also includes entertaining tours led by Capt. William Mayhem, an Air Force vet who is a real character ($14.99 adults;$7.99 children; tour included).
In the heart of the Historic District, you’ll find The Floridian restaurant, with indoor and outdoor seating on quiet Spanish Street, which is lined with moss-draped live oak trees. Chef Genie McNally specializes in Southern comfort foods and healthier alternatives to the usual suspects. Try the cheddar-and-veggie stuffed cornbread, topped with blackened fish and a chimichurri aioli drizzle. Dinner runs about $20 to $30 without drinks. 
Tucked away on a side street in the Historic District, tiny Cousteau’s Waffle & Milkshake Bar is a veritable graveyard for New Year’s resolutions. Order a superb, hand-spun butter pecan milkshake with maple syrup, candied pecans and bourbon whipped cream ($6.49) and savor it as you take a long stroll. Pedestrian St. George Street is full of life, but for a quieter look at some beautiful Spanish and British colonial style buildings, venture south of Plaza de la Constitution to Old Town and linger on Aviles Street, the nation’s oldest street, where you’ll find galleries selling local art and handmade crafts. 
St. Augustine is no place to skip breakfast. For an excellent selection of baked goods and a spot of live bluegrass music, head to the outdoor St. Augustine Amphitheater Farmers Market (8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Saturdays), where you can pick up everything from seafood to souvenirs and plenty of quick bites, including great vegan and gluten free muffins at Hugo’s. If doughnuts are your thing, hustle over to Swillerbees before they run out of the Hey Shorty, with chocolate frosting, Nutella and crumbled shortbread cookies ($2), or Miami Vice, a cream cheese and guava jelly mess of a treat. For less sweet fare and what may be the best café con leche north of Miami, the Cuban-American La Herencia Café on Aviles Street, serves the Guajiro — an open-faced omelet over Cuban toast, topped with black beans, roasted pork, salsa and Romano cheese, with a side of sweet plantains ($12).
Take the 45-minute tour of the opulent Spanish Renaissance-style Hotel Ponce de Léon and admire the grand lobby with its 68-foot domed ceiling and the old dining room’s 79 Louis Comfort Tiffany stained-glass windows ($12 adults, free for children under 10.) Then walk a block to the Villa Zorayda Museum ($10 adults, $5 children 7-12, free 6 and under.) Franklin W. Smith, a Boston hardware merchant, was a traveler, and his stunning Moorish Revival Style home, a one-tenth-scale reproduction of a portion of the Alhambra Palace in Granada, Spain, is dripping with antiquities from around the world. The audio tour is full of great yarns, none better than that of the museum’s Sacred Cat Rug, a 2,400-year-old cat hair rug found by Nile fisherman in the tomb of an Egyptian princess. The rug depicts a large cat that is said to curse anyone who walks on it. According to the audio tour, a dead cat appeared on the doorway after the rug was removed for cleaning several years ago, reinforcing the legend of the curse.
The Players Championship is one of the most lucrative golf tournaments in the world. The Players Stadium Course, where the tournament takes place just outside St. Augustine, is a lush green nirvana, even for nongolfers. Outside tournament time, docent “storytellers” will take you on a free golf cart tour around the course. Among other sites, you’ll see the notoriously treacherous 17th hole, with its island green, where more than 120,000 errant balls are retrieved from the lake each year. After the tour, have lunch on the veranda overlooking the 18th hole at 19. Try the grilled grouper tacos ($17) or the delightfully creamy and rich butter chicken ($16).
The words “reasonable” and “fresh seafood” don’t coincide often enough near Florida’s beaches, but they do at the Mango Mango’s Caribbean Grill & Bar on St. Augustine Beach. The menu is eclectic, the prices are reasonable and the vibe is pass-the-hot sauce friendly. The stuffed corn cakes are pure magic but save room for the richest, most delectable peanut butter pie you’ve ever had, a bargain at $5.99. Afterward, resist the urge to turn in early, and play air hockey at Sarbez!, a dive bar and grilled cheese sandwich emporium with live music and craft beers aplenty.
What started in 1893 as an improvised attraction where tourists waiting at a train stop paid to see locally captured gators, has evolved into one of the country’s oldest zoos: The St. Augustine Alligator Farm Zoological Park, which claims to be the only one that features all 24 crocodilian species. You can take a zip line over a lagoon habitat, and see an extraordinary array of exotic birds, reptiles and mammals. Save time to become acquainted with Maximo, a beast of a crocodile from Australia who is nearly 16 feet and 1,250 pounds. It took almost a year to convince the farm he grew up on — which raises crocodiles to make handbags — to agree to sell his lady friend, Sydney, but his mood improved considerably once they were reunited in their Florida habitat.
Treat yourself to an indulgent Southern brunch on the wraparound porch at Preserved Restaurant in the heart of the Lincolnville neighborhood. Set in a Victorian home once occupied by Thomas Jefferson’s great-granddaughter, Preserved is run by Brian Whittington, a James Beard-nominated chef who transformed a minimarket into one of the city’s best restaurants. The Mayport shrimp and grits, warm scones with jam, and roasted oysters are all outstanding. Expect to pay about $20 for brunch. History buffs should linger in the neighborhood, which was settled by freed slaves and played a significant role in the Civil Rights movement. The first stop (#101, 79 Bridge Street) on the ACCORD Freedom Trail walking/driving audio tour — described as “the first medical/dental office constructed in St. Augustine without racially segregated waiting rooms” — is just a block from the restaurant. (Dial 904-335-3002 and enter each stop number to hear commentary.)
Pick up a shark tooth identification guide at one of the many local shell shops and head to Vilano Beach. Anastasia State Park has softer sand and is a better spot for swimmers, but Vilano is a local favorite that’s ideal for surfing. When the tide is turning out, comb the shore for fossilized shark teeth. With a little patience, you’ll go home with the ultimate souvenir. 
Opened in December 2018, the Embassy Suites St. Augustine Beach Oceanfront Resort is a comfortable resort on a lovely stretch of beach. Children will love the oceanfront pool, and there are plenty of recliners and fire pits, perfect for stargazing during the free nightly cocktail and hors d’oeuvre hour. Rates start at $169 for a double room.
In the Historic District, try the uniquely designed Collector Inn (from $189), built on a cluster of nine landmark buildings dating to 1790, or the Casa Monica (from $193), a luxury hotel in an extraordinary Moorish Revival style building built in 1888 by Franklin W. Smith, the owner of Villa Zorayda.
If you’re looking for a vacation rental, check for listings near the beaches, particularly in St. Augustine Beach and Vilano Beach, where rates start at $100 a night for no-frills cottages and go up from there, depending on size, proximity to the beach and season. 
 Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Prosecutors can't release undercover video of New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft and others allegedly receiving sex acts at a Florida massage parlor until a Florida judge rules later this month.
Circuit Judge Joseph Marx on Wednesday barred the release of any video from the Orchids of Asia Day Spa before an April 29 hearing where he will hear from all parties, the Palm Beach Post reported.
Palm Beach County prosecutors had filed a notice in a related case saying they believe the videos are public records under Florida law and plan to release pixilated versions — a move Kraft's attorneys quickly moved to block, accusing prosecutors of apparent "gross prosecutorial misconduct."
Kraft was charged in February with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution for allegedly paying for sex at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa in Jupiter, Florida. He has pleaded not guilty. Twenty-four other alleged Orchids of Asia customers were similarly charged.
Palm Beach State Attorney David Aronberg wrote to the court in the related case that there is no legal basis to block the videos' release. The Associated Press and numerous other media outlets have requested the videos.
"Absent a Court order, the State will be releasing the requested public records" after they are pixilated, Aronberg wrote. His spokesman, Mike Edmondson, said the release is not imminent as the office is processing numerous public records requests from the case.
Defense attorney Jack Goldberger quickly sent a letter to the judge overseeing Kraft's case, writing that prosecutors are trying to "evade judicial review and end run" around a promise he says they made to await a court ruling on whether the videos are a public record.
"The State's bad faith attempt to circumvent judicial review by simply releasing the Videos" before the judge rules "is an affront to justice and grossly unethical," Goldberger wrote.
David S. Weinstein, a defense attorney and former prosecutor who is not involved in the case, said "there is still no guarantee that the tapes will be released." Prosecutors "are simply stating that they are complying with their duties under the public records laws and they won't be withholding the tapes," he said. Even if the trial judge orders the videos' release, Kraft's attorneys could appeal, he said.
Kraft, 77, is accused of paying for sex acts at the spa twice in January. While fighting the charges, he recently issued an apology saying he had disappointed his family, friends, co-workers, fans "and many others who rightfully hold me to a higher standard."
Kraft said he has "extraordinary respect for women," adding that his morals were shaped by his late wife, who died in 2011.
According to police records, Kraft, who is worth $6 billion, was chauffeured to the Orchids of Asia spa on the evening of Jan. 19, where officers secretly recorded him engaging in a sex act and then handing over an undetermined amount of cash.
Investigators said Kraft returned 17 hours later and was again videotaped engaging in sex acts before paying with a $100 bill and another bill, police said.
Hours later, he was in Kansas City for the AFC Championship game, where his Patriots defeated the Chiefs. His team then won the Super Bowl in Atlanta, the Patriots' sixth NFL championship under his ownership.
Goldberger has previously accused Jupiter police of having "deliberately misrepresented" facts used to get a judge to approve the warrant allowing the cameras' secret installation. Officers used an undisclosed ruse to gain access to the spa days before Kraft's visits.
Jupiter was part of a multicounty investigation of massage parlor prostitution and possible human trafficking that resulted with the arrests of about 300 men and the closure of 10 spas. The spa owners have been charged with felonies. Prosecutors have conceded they found no evidence of human trafficking at the Jupiter spa.
Goldberger also said officers did not exhaust less-invasive means of investigating the spa, and Florida law says audio surveillance such as wiretaps should only be used for serious felonies such as murder or kidnapping and does not list prostitution.
Prosecutors have offered to drop the charges if Kraft enters a diversion program for first-time offenders, as some others charged have. That would include an admission he would be found guilty if the case went to trial, a $5,000 fine, 100 hours of community service and attendance in a class on the dangers of prostitution and its connection to human trafficking. He would also have to make a court appearance and be tested for sexually transmitted diseases.
Prosecutors have said the fine and community service are required by law and are not negotiable.
It was a week with a crushing streak of news, so we’ll break it down into manageable parts. 
1. In Washington:
President Trump’s former lawyer and personal fixer, above, painted a damning picture of life inside the president’s inner circle.
While Democrats are not likely to immediately pursue impeachment, Michael Cohen’s statements may open a new phase of political turbulence for Mr. Trump heading into the 2020 election.
Here are five takeaways from Mr. Cohen’s testimony.
We also reported that Mr. Trump ordered in May that Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, be given a top-secret security clearance, overruling officials’ concerns. House Democrats are demanding more information about the matter.
Congress was busy elsewhere on Capitol Hill: The House passed two major gun control bills after two decades of inaction. And Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, was confirmed to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.
____
2. On the international front:
Talks between President Trump and the North Korean leader to rid the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons abruptly collapsed, with both Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un walking away empty-handed. Above, the leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, this week.
Our reporters look at how the summit failed after two years of threats, hubris and misjudgment on both sides. Experts think North Korea may take this as an opportunity to continue building out its nuclear arsenal, and tensions are likely to resume.
In Afghanistan, American negotiators and Taliban officials are getting closer to an agreement to end the nearly 18-year war in Afghanistan.
____
3. President Trump may have a surprising new ally along the southern border — the Mexican government.
Mexican authorities are blocking groups of migrants at border towns and aiding tough asylum policies, carrying out the Trump administration’s immigration agenda across widespread stretches of the border. Above, migrants seeking asylum in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, in January.
But Mr. Trump’s agenda is facing growing pushback in the U.S. from Congress: The House voted this week to block the president’s declaration of national emergency to fund his border wall; the Senate is expected to take up the bill in mid-March. And Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, is scheduled to testify before Congress on Wednesday about the administration’s border security policies.
To read more stories about life on the ground at the U.S.-Mexico border, sign up for our limited-run newsletter, Crossing the Border.
____
4. We also looked at two growing leadership scandals abroad.
In Israel, the attorney general said he plans to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on bribery and other corruption charges. The announcement came just 40 days before Mr. Netanyahu is to stand for re-election. If the case proceeds, Mr. Netanyahu, pictured above this week, would be the first sitting prime minister to be indicted.
Between the corruption charges and a stiff electoral challenge, Israelis are pondering what a post-Netanyahu Israel would look like.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada is also embroiled in scandal. He and his aides are accused of pressuring a former minister to drop a criminal inquiry, with elections just seven months away.
____
5. A recent Florida massage parlor sting exposed a secretive underworld of human trafficking: A $3 billion-a-year industry where many mostly foreign women work as prostitutes to pay debts to smugglers, spa owners and lawyers.
A spa in Jupiter, Fla., caught the attention of the nation when a sweep led to the arrest of Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots. Law enforcement officials said there were an estimated 9,000 illicit massage parlors across the country, from Orlando to Los Angeles. Above, a spa in Hobe Sound, Fla., was shut down after an investigation into prostitution and human trafficking.
____
6. SpaceX and NASA launched the Crew Dragon capsule to the International Space Station — the first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the shuttle was retired in 2011.
The capsule carried no crew, but the success sets up a near future with astronauts traveling to orbit from the United States again, possibly as soon as the end of the year. NASA astronauts have flown to the International Space Station aboard a Russian spacecraft for the past eight years.
In other space news, the universe appears to be expanding faster than expected. To explain why, astrophysicists may have to rewrite the history of the cosmos.
____
7. Michael Jackson died deep in debt. Now his estate is worth billions. Will a new film about two men’s accounts of sexual abuse damage his posthumous career?
The documentary “Leaving Neverland” airs in two parts on HBO tonight and tomorrow. Above, Mr. Jackson and one of his accusers, Wade Robson, in 1990.
Mr. Jackson’s estate has already begun its war on “Leaving Neverland” and is seeking $100 million in damages from HBO.
“There has always been this shadow or cloud about Michael,” said a former financial adviser to Mr. Jackson, who died nearly 10 years ago. “With this documentary about to be shown to millions and millions of people, and all the notoriety that it’s now getting, I think it will have a detrimental effect to the legacy and the estate.”
____
8. $330 million.
Bryce Harper’s 13-year deal with the Philadelphia Phillies is the richest in baseball history. At 26 years old, and given the length of the contract, Harper has more or less bound himself to the team for the remainder of his career — and a sports culture all its own, our baseball columnist writes. Mr. Harper, above in September, was last with the Washington Nationals.
Stars like Harper aside, baseball players are struggling to get the contracts they want. Is there something they can learn from basketball players?
“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” one historian said. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”
____
9. Everyone knows off-season is the cheapest time to travel, but who wants lousy weather?
Our Frugal Traveler column compiled a month-to-month guide on when and where to book to save money. Part of it is finding soft periods in times of higher demand, so there are fewer people but not terrible weather.
Bali in March, Alaska in April, Disneyland in May, and Aspen in June are just a few destinations to spark your wanderlust.
____
10. Finally, don’t miss our best Weekend Reads.
We talked to young people who grew up in a Britain shaped by austerity, Michael J. Fox about acting with Parkinson’s, and a longtime fan on having a first impression of “Fiddler on the Roof,” above in New York City.
For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 11 new books our editors like, a glance at the latest TV recommendations, and our music critics’ latest playlist.
Have an easy week.
____
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
In the past month, Emma Coronel Aispuro, the wife of the drug lord known as El Chapo, has become a controversial central character in her husband’s trial.
A witness named her as a co-conspirator in his infamous maximum-security prison break in 2015. Transcripts of text messages between the husband and wife showed him asking her to stash his weapons ahead of a raid. The morning one of El Chapo’s mistresses took the stand, Ms. Coronel and her husband wore matching maroon velvet suit jackets in what appeared to be a show of solidarity. 
Over the course of Joaquín Guzmán Loera’s three-month trial, witnesses for the prosecution have described a grim life for the women in and around the cartel who are often expected to balance a role that walks the line between lover and accomplice. Most fail, usually wanting to be too much of one, and not enough of the other. They often end up behind bars or in hiding.
But Ms. Coronel, the most prominent female presence in a trial of almost exclusively male players, has emerged as the exception. 
Over 10 weeks, prosecutors have called 56 witnesses who have portrayed her husband as a vengeful drug trafficker, a bloodthirsty killer and a habitual philanderer. Ms. Coronel has appeared in court almost every day, a stone-faced fixture in her reserved seat in the second row. 
As a result of trial testimony, her husband is almost certainly going to prison for the rest of his life. But Ms. Coronel, who has enjoyed the spoils of a drug empire that prosecutors have estimated allowed the kingpin to bank $14 billion over the course of his 30-year reign, dismissed the courtroom characterizations of her husband.
“I don’t know my husband as the person they are trying to show him as,” Ms. Coronel told The New York Times in one of several interviews conducted in Spanish. “But rather I admire him as the human being that I met, and the one that I married.”
Most would balk at Ms. Coronel’s admiration for her husband, one of the most notorious drug lords in Latin American who, according to one witness, was powerful enough to pay off a former Mexican president. 
The case has been so strong — in the last week a witness detailed how Mr. Guzmán had a man buried alive — that El Chapo’s own legal team only mustered a 30-minute defense on Tuesday after the prosecution rested its case.
Married couples cannot be compelled to testify against each other, but recent trial developments have left many wondering how Ms. Coronel has managed to avoid criminal charges. 
Prosecutors declined to answer questions about why she is not in legal peril, and Ms. Coronel also has refused to comment on the court proceedings. But the testimony, if true, only compounds the good-wife narrative.
Now more than ever, she is linked to her husband.
“If you hear ‘Emma Coronel’ and you know who Emma Coronel is, then you’re going to think: El Chapo,” said Miguel Ángel Vega, a reporter for the news site RioDoce, based in Culiacán.
Ms. Coronel, 29, became El Chapo’s wife as a teenager in 2007 and a mother while in her early 20s. Her husband — more than twice her age and married multiple times — has been either incarcerated or on the run for their entire married life. 
The trial has led Ms. Coronel to split her time between two countries; the couple’s 7-year-old twin daughters are in school in Mexico. She said she stays in touch with them through group messaging.
“I have had to be separated from my daughters to accompany him now that I am the only person in his family that can be here in New York with him,” Ms. Coronel said.
Since Mr. Guzmán’s extradition in January 2017, their twins, Emali and Maria Joaquina, have been able to see their father during court appearances and through closely supervised visits to jail. 
“He always was a father very present to the attention of our daughters,” she said of her husband. She described the girls as “the adoration of their father and he is the adoration of them.”
The twins are the only approved visitors who can currently see him at the undisclosed location where he is being held. (Ms. Coronel has not once been allowed to visit or speak with him, even by phone.)
“I don’t consider myself a single mother,” Ms. Coronel said. “More so, a mother who in this moment doesn’t have the support of her husband, but trusts that the family will be well.”
Still, she acknowledged, “Obviously, our life changed.”
Ms. Coronel met Mr. Guzmán at a ranch in Durango, Mexico, when she was 17. Mr. Guzmán, then in his late 40s and well-established at the top of the Sinaloa cartel, had been on the run some six years after making a daring escape from prison in a laundry cart in 2001.
Although 32 years separate them in age, from that first day “a lovely friendship” started between the couple, Ms. Coronel told The Times. “With the passing of months we became girlfriend and boyfriend,” she recalled. “And when I turned 18 years old, we married in a very simple ceremony with family and only close friends.”
Ms. Coronel, who rarely gives interviews, insisted she leads a normal life. Born in California, she grew up in the northwestern Mexican state of Durango, neighboring Mr. Guzmán’s own Sinaloa. Both states make up part of the Golden Triangle of marijuana production. Still, the version of her life story she shared excluded any mention of drugs — even though court testimony has suggested that her father worked for the Sinaloa cartel.
Instead, she briefly mentioned a “very tranquil, simple childhood, within a loving, unified family,” adding that she grew up with two brothers and a sister “whom I love.” Stories about her in Mexico have said that she won a beauty pageant as a teenager, but most details about her personal life remain a mystery. 
Mr. Vega, who also co-hosts a Vice podcast about El Chapo, said he believes the couple’s love story is genuine.
“Can you imagine a 17-year-old who just happens to win a beauty pageant contest and then this powerful man tries to conquer her heart?” he said. “I believe that she was seduced by that power, by that name. Just the name.”
That romance has now brought her to New York City, where during the time of her husband’s imprisonment she has attended a Yankees game, walked through Central Park and often dines at a favorite sky-view sushi spot in Brooklyn.
On a recent day, Ms. Coronel walked out of a hotel lobby in Brooklyn, bundled against 40-degree weather in a black, fur-trimmed puff jacket, alongside two female friends — an attorney and her real estate agent. She looked around for a black Camry that would take her into Manhattan for a photo shoot.
The city is not new to her, she said. She has seen tourist attractions, like the Empire State Building, on other visits.  
When asked about her night life in the city, Ms. Coronel replied, “I prefer to sleep.” The trial, she said, has been exhausting.
Once inside the car, there was a general rejoicing that it was finally Friday — a day off from the trial to sleep in.
Ms. Coronel had been central to the drama that unfolded in court before the defense rested its case.
Prosecutors shared the couple’s text messages from 2012, which showed her preparing for a potential raid at the home where she was staying that February.
“Any weapons there, love? Do you have a gun?” Mr. Guzmán asked in one exchange.
“I have one of yours. That you gave me,” she responded.
He instructed her to hide it in a clavo, or hidden compartment, in the home.
Last week, Dámaso López Núñez, 52, a former prison director turned high-ranking cartel member, testified that Ms. Coronel helped orchestrate her husband’s 2015 prison escape.
Over the course of four months in early 2015, Mr. López said Ms. Coronel met with him and Mr. Guzmán’s sons to carry out Mr. Guzmán’s jailhouse directives: purchase a plot of land and bodega close to the prison; secure weapons, an armored pickup truck and a GPS wristwatch to pinpoint his exact cell coordinates; and dig a tunnel stretching from the prison to the bodega.
In July 2015, Mr. Guzmán shimmied down a hole dug under his shower, mounted a pulley-run cycle and rode it the length of the nearly mile-long tunnel. One of Ms. Coronel’s brothers was waiting for him at the bodega with an A.T.V., which they rode to an airstrip in San Juan, according to testimony. From there, Mr. Guzmán flew home to the mountains of Sinaloa.
Ms. Coronel declined to comment when asked about Mr. López’s allegations that she had helped her husband escape.
Throughout the trial, Ms. Coronel has betrayed little emotion — even on the day when one of Mr. Guzmán’s mistresses sobbed on the stand.
Ms. Coronel’s outward composure has faltered only once, the lone day she brought her daughters to court in December. On that day, the prosecution rolled in a cart filled with AK-47s and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher. When she saw the weapons, Ms. Coronel flew out of the courtroom, escorting her daughters into a hallway filled with United States marshals.
Without singling out any incident, Ms. Coronel has noted her dislike for what has happened in court. It has been “demasiado,” too much, she said. “I hate drama.”
One day after court, Mr. Guzmán scanned the gallery. His wife smiled, leaning across the bench. They did not, could not, speak to one another. A flank of marshals escorted him out of the room, and she turned solemn.
“This situation that we are forging through right now is difficult and heavy,” she said. “However, I have faith and I am convinced that God puts us only through obstacles that we can overcome, and I trust that it will be how it is.”
CHICAGO — A purported bodyguard of one of drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman's sons has pleaded guilty in Chicago to taking part in a drug conspiracy.
The Chicago Sun-Times reports that 35-year-old Jesus Raul Beltran-Leon admitted Wednesday to his role in the 2013 sale of 46 kilograms of cocaine in Los Angeles.
Beltran's guilty plea without getting any deal from federal prosecutors comes weeks before his trial was set to begin. It means he faces a maximum sentence of life in prison.
His sentencing hearing is scheduled for July 10 but may be delayed because witnesses could be called to testify.
El Chapo was found guilty in February in Brooklyn of murder conspiracy charges, drug trafficking, money laundering and firearms possession.
HONG KONG — Chinese authorities seized 7.48 tonnes of smuggled ivory tusks last month, the biggest haul in recent years, as Beijing steps up a campaign against illegal wildlife trafficking.
The seizures came during an operation against an international criminal gang "that has long been specializing in smuggling ivory," the customs administration said on Monday.
China, the world's largest importer and end user of elephant tusks, banned ivory sales in the country in 2017.
Demand for ivory from Asian countries such as China and Vietnam, where it is turned into jewels and ornaments, has led to a surge in poaching across Africa. 
Since January, China has seized 8.48 tonnes of ivory and ivory products and more than 500 tonnes of endangered species, the customs administration said.
The ivory tusks are part of a flurry of seizures - from rhino horns to pangolin scales - in Hong Kong, Singapore and Vietnam in recent months.
Much of the trade supplies the traditional Chinese medicine industry, with demand for treatments using animal products driving a surge in illegal trafficking of wildlife.
Environmental groups have urged authorities to go beyond the seizure of animal products and to prosecute wildlife criminal networks.
 (Reporting by Farah Master; editing by Darren Schuettler)
BEIJING — Warning that China’s arrest of two Canadians has created a dangerous chill for people working on policy and research in that country, more than 100 academics and former diplomats have signed an open letter calling for the two men to be immediately freed.
Made public on Monday, the letter was an international cry of concern from people who work and study in China, saying the arrests threaten the flow of ideas with Chinese academics and officials that is essential for policy work and research aimed at narrowing international rifts.
The letter warned China that the detentions will result in “greater distrust.”
Its signatories included 27 diplomats from seven countries and 116 scholars and academics from 19 countries.
“Meetings and exchanges are the foundation of serious research and diplomacy around the world, including for Chinese scholars and diplomats,” the letter said. The arrests, though, “send a message that this kind of constructive work is unwelcome and even risky in China.”
Timothy Brook, a professor of Chinese history at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver and one of the signatories, said in a phone interview, “If China wishes to be seen as a full and responsible member of the international community, it needs to set itself a much higher standard than this.”
“To punish Canada,” he added, “is really for China to say: ‘We have no friends in the world and we want no friends in the world. We will do just what we want on the terms that we want.’”
The Chinese police detained the two Canadians, Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor, last month as officials in Beijing scrambled to press Canada to free Meng Wanzhou, a Chinese technology executive, arrested in Vancouver on Dec. 1, and held for possible extradition to the United States on fraud charges.
The Chinese government was incensed by Ms. Meng’s arrest, and officials have called the case against her an illegal, baseless vendetta.
The arrests of the Canadians, as well as a death sentence for drug trafficking given to a Canadian man by a Chinese court last week, have plunged Canadian-Chinese relations into their worst tensions in decades.
But the roster of signatories shows that the arrests of the two men have sent shivers far beyond Canada, and well beyond diplomatic concerns.
“The letter is important as a forum for China specialists to stand up and be counted, to speak up to defend one of our own,” said Anne-Marie Brady, a professor at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand who studies Chinese politics and who also signed the letter. “We know it could be any one of us.”
“At the very least, speaking up in this way will keep the two men safe from harm,” Ms. Brady added. “The public campaign ensures the whole world is watching as China uses Canadian citizens as pawns in a wider geopolitical standoff.”
Other signatories were Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a former British foreign secretary, and Chris Patten, the former European commissioner for external relations. Two former American ambassadors to Beijing — Winston Lord and Gary Locke — also signed, as did six previous Canadian ambassadors to Beijing.
“Chinese actions are becoming increasingly out of line with international laws and global norms,” said Susan Shirk, an American signatory who served as deputy assistant secretary of state for China and the region.
“If the Chinese government and Communist Party feel they can simply detain people as part of what appears to be a dispute that’s really with the United States and Canada,” she said, “that puts all our bridge building efforts at risk.”
Also signing was Gareth Evans, the former Australian foreign minister who is president emeritus of the International Crisis Group, the nonprofit organization that Mr. Kovrig has worked for since 2017, after leaving the Canadian foreign service.
Since Mr. Kovrig and Mr. Spavor were detained, the Canadian government has campaigned for and received international support from a growing list of countries, including Spain, which last week demanded the men receive “fair, transparent and impartial treatment.”
The letter echoes that multilateral approach and defies the traditional Chinese foreign policy of isolating countries, said David Mulroney, a former Canadian ambassador to China.
“Maybe this represents a new approach, not that people are ganging up on China, but that the international community says this isn’t appropriate,” Mr. Mulroney said. “The old isolate-and-dominate approach won’t work anymore.”
The Chinese Foreign Ministry has rejected the idea that the arrests and death sentence for the Canadian men were retribution for Ms. Meng’s arrest.
Even so, Chinese officials and media comments have argued that their country must defend itself. The open letter said experts and officials considering going to China would have to weigh the risks in the wake of the arrests.
Mr. Kovrig was seized at night from a street in Beijing about nine days after the Canadian police arrested Ms. Meng, the chief financial officer of Huawei, a Chinese technology giant.
She has been released on bail in Vancouver and is awaiting a decision on whether the Canadian government can extradite her to the United States, where prosecutors have accused her of bank fraud linked to business deals with Iran that contravene American sanctions.
As a diplomat and then an adviser for the International Crisis Group, Mr. Kovrig specialized in Chinese foreign policy, especially its role in North Korea and other Asian trouble spots. In China he attended meetings with Chinese officials and academics, and was interviewed on Chinese television programs.
Mr. Spavor, who was arrested soon after Mr. Kovrig, is a businessman who has made a specialty of securing access and business in North Korea. The Chinese government has said both men are suspected of “harming national security,” a vague charge that can include espionage.
Last week, in a further escalation of the tensions between China and Canada, a court in northeast China sentenced to death a Canadian man, Robert Lloyd Schellenberg, who was convicted of drug smuggling. Mr. Schellenberg’s lawyer said the death sentence was extraordinarily swift, coming on the same day as his retrial, which had been ordered at an appeal hearing in later December.
CHICAGO — The Cubs were in need of a strong outing by a starter, and Jose Quintana delivered.
The left-hander struck out 11 in seven innings of four-hit ball as Chicago blanked the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0 on Thursday night.
Quintana (1-1) bounced back after being roughed up for eight runs and eight hits in three innings against Milwaukee during his first start of the season last Friday. It was the longest outing by a Chicago starter this season.
"That's as good as we've seen him," Cubs manager Joe Maddon said. "That was dominant. Strikeouts, strike throwing. Everything was working.
"He was outstanding, and we needed that."
Daniel Descalso and Victor Caratini each had two hits and an RBI in a game that was delayed 69 minutes by rain before the eighth inning.
Caratini left after the delay and X-rays indicate the backup catcher might have a broken hamate bone in his left hand. He believes he was injured on a swing, and a CT scan is scheduled for Friday.
"It's definitely frustrating, especially because I started out the season the way I wanted to," Caratini said through a translator.
Steve Cishek pitched the eighth and Pedro Strop got three outs for his first save. The Cubs took two of three in their first home series after opening with a 2-7 road trip.
Pirates starter Joe Musgrove (1-1) allowed two unearned runs and four hits in 6 1/3 innings.
"I think the biggest downfall for me was that third time around the lineup, getting behind a lot of hitters," Musgrove said. "You get behind guys like that, especially the third time around, they know what I like to go to, what's working for me all game long, so I'm kind of exposed a little bit."
Because of severe storms predicted to move into the area late Thursday night, the Cubs pushed up the start of the game a half hour. The rain began as Chicago rallied for both runs in the seventh.
With one out, Jason Heyward lifted a pop fly to shallow left field and the strong right-to-left wind blew the ball toward the line. Because of a defensive shift, no Pittsburgh fielder had a clear shot at it. Three players converged and the ball hit off the glove of third baseman Jung Ho Kang in fair territory and fell in.
The play originally was called a double, but was quickly changed to an error on shortstop Erik Gonzalez.
Descalso followed with a single to drive in Heyward for the game's first run. Descalso went to second on the throw to the plate and scored when the next batter, Caratini, doubled to right-center against Francisco Liriano.
By that point, a steady rain had begun. Shortly after the seventh inning ended, a bolt of lightning flashed in the distance beyond center field and the umpires stopped play.
EARLY EXIT
Maddon was ejected in the bottom of the fifth by plate umpire Mike Estabrook for arguing balls and strikes.
With runners on first and second and one out, Caratini took a low breaking ball on a 3-1 pitch for a strike. After hearing complaints from the Cubs dugout, Estabrook took a few steps down the third base line and held up a hand, essentially saying that was enough.
Maddon walked out and slowly made his way to the home plate area. He was ejected almost immediately after speaking to Estabrook.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Cubs: If the hamate bone in Caratini's left hand is broken, the fear is surgery could be required and he'd be sidelined four to six weeks. Oddly, Caratini was injured on the first pitch of his at-bat in the seventh. "The first swing I felt a crack, but I felt hot so I kept going," he said. "Once I got to second base and I took my glove off, I could tell there was something wrong."
ROSTER MOVES
Pirates: INF Kevin Kramer was recalled from Triple-A Indianapolis to take the roster spot of SS Kevin Newman, who was placed on the 10-day injured list with a lacerated finger on his right hand.
Cubs: RHP Jen-Ho Tseng was released. The 24-year-old from Taiwan had been designated for assignment Saturday.
UP NEXT
Pirates: RHP Trevor Williams (1-0, 2.25 ERA) takes the mound Friday night in the opener of a three-game series at Washington. LHP Patrick Corbin (0-0, 3.75) starts for the Nationals.
Cubs: LHP Cole Hamels (1-0, 5.73 ERA) pitches the opener of a three-game home series against the Angles on Friday afternoon. LHP Tyler Skaggs (1-1, 2.45) goes for Los Angeles.
___
RABAT, Morocco — Pope Francis called Saturday to mend the “great and deep wound” opened by the migration crisis, as he spoke during a visit to Morocco which has become the chief destination for sub-Saharan African migrants seeking to reach Europe.
“We do not want our response to be one of indifference and silence,” Francis said to about 80 migrants at a Catholic charity center in Rabat, the Moroccan capital.
Years after the explosion of the migration crisis destabilized Europe and provided fodder for hard-line politicians who surged to power across the continent, the issue seems to have faded and a consensus has emerged that migration needs to be checked and borders closed.
But Francis, who for years has been a lone voice on the migration issue, used his two-day stay in Rabat not only to continue to promote moderate Islam, but also to implore the more comfortable corners of the world to accept, protect and integrate migrants. He urged people to take concrete steps and “act prudently rather than remain silent.”
“Protection must first and foremost be ensured along migration routes, which, sadly, are often theaters of violence, exploitation and abuse of all kinds,” he said. And once migrants reach their destinations, they face unacceptable “forms of collective expulsion,” he added. That has been advocated in countries such as Italy and Hungary, where anti-immigrant leaders are in control.
At the same time, the pope urged migrants to learn the local languages and respect the laws and culture of their host countries.
Even before his departure for Morocco, Francis made his disgust with the current crackdown on migrants clear. In an interview with a Spanish journalist scheduled to air on Sunday, he expressed frustration with European governments refusing to offer havens to aid ships that have rescued migrants from the Mediterranean.
“Why do they do it?” the pope asked of the governments. “To let them drown?”
But the pope’s critics and even some supporters worry that his championing of refugees is weakened by his inconsistency when it comes to addressing the clerical sex abuse crisis within his own church.
On the eve of his visit to Morocco, Francis issued a new law for Vatican City — characterized by Vatican officials as a model for the wider Roman Catholic Church — that requires clerics and Vatican officials to report credible abuse allegations to Vatican prosecutors.
But abuse survivors and their advocates said the law was essentially meaningless outside of Vatican City, where there are hardly any children, and that it failed to address the fact that the church is incapable of policing itself.
The pope’s lack of meaningful and concrete reform to confront sex abuse, critics say, has led to the eroding of his moral authority, and the weakening of one of the last voices on the world stage speaking out in support of migrants.
Reverend Michael Czerny, an under secretary of the Vatican’s Migrants and Refugees Section, said that while the pope’s handling of the sex abuse crisis may have intensified criticism “among people less ready to follow his lead in the first place,” it “doesn’t take away from the message of assisting vulnerable people in society, like migrants and victims of human trafficking.”
The pope’s emphasis on the issue is critical, he said, because anti-migrant forces had “not won” the battle for public opinion.
Italy’s interior minister, Matteo Salvini, who is also the leader of the increasingly popular League party, rose to power on the strength of his opposition to migration. In office, he has prevented aid ships from docking in Italian ports, arguing that the ships encourage more illegal migration and benefit human traffickers.
But the reduction in the migrant flow is largely due to deals made between tribal leaders in Libya, who have in turn sealed off their southern border, kept migrants frequently in awful conditions and patrolled the North African country’s coast for migrant ships.
Because of that, tens of thousands of migrants, including many sub-Saharan Africans, have rerouted to Morocco, where they have crossed the Strait of Gibraltar for Spain. That is now the preferred entry point to Europe for illegal migrants, with 57,000 arriving last year, according to the European Union.
Those numbers have created now-predictable tensions and populist foment ahead of elections in Spain next month. The European Union has given Morocco $275 million to stanch the flow.
“There is a constant flow of people through Morocco, and large numbers,” said Sister Mary Donlon, the mother superior of an order of nuns working in Morocco, Tunisia and Nigeria. She said there was “great tension” because Europe was increasingly closing its doors while more migrants from sub-Saharan Africa made their way to Morocco.
The pope is “probably the only one who is supporting them,” she said, and the crisis persists “even if people are not speaking about it.”
On Saturday, Francis did.
At the Hassan Tower, a 12th century uncompleted red sandstone minaret and mosque in the Moroccan capital on North Africa’s western Atlantic coast, Pope Francis arrived side by side with King Mohammed VI — the pope waving in a white popemobile, the king out of the retractable roof of a black antique Mercedes. A man dashed past the pope and within feet of the car carrying the king, where he was grabbed by security guards. Then the ceremony continued.
Greeted in pouring rain by soldiers uniformed in thick red cloth, drums, ululating spectators and cannon salutes, the two stressed the importance of interreligious dialogue. In recent trips to Egypt and the United Arab Emirates, the pope has sought to elevate moderate interlocutors of Islam at a time when Islamic extremism has taken a heavy toll on minority Christian communities.
Calling Morocco “a natural bridge between Africa and Europe,” the pope addressed a drenched crowd, some covering their traditional Fez hats with overturned chairs. As the Moroccan king, in a traditional hooded and striped yellow djellaba, sat beside him, Francis called for a respectful dialogue.
The pope traveled along streets lined with Moroccans, many waving their hats and cheering, to an institute built by the king for the training of imams.
Morocco has pursued what officials call an “Islam of the middle path doctrine,” which advocates tolerance and interreligious and intercultural dialogue. Analysts say that moderation is both the kingdom’s way to counter the spread of destabilizing extremism in a country where many have been tempted by the Islamic State, and to turn Morocco into a center for Islam in Africa.
In the center’s auditorium, Christian, Muslim and Jewish singers serenaded the pope and the king, seated in the front row, with a medley of traditional songs, accompanied by an orchestra. One Nigerian woman told the audience of Catholic prelates, Muslim imams and royals that she hoped the knowledge she gained at the institute would enable her to turn more people away from violent extremism at home.
But the Africans the pope met with in the Catholic charity Caritas center told reporters they had no intention of returning home. They had their eyes set on Europe. And they apparently had the pope behind them.
“We know that it is not easy — for those who arrive and for those who receive them,” Francis said, adding, “integrating requires us not to be conditioned by fear and ignorance.”
Today in History
Today is Wednesday, April 10, the 100th day of 2019. There are 265 days left in the year.
Today's Highlight in History:
On April 10, 1865, Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee, a day after surrendering the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House, said farewell to his men, praising them for their "unsurpassed courage and fortitude."
On this date:
In 1866, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was incorporated.
In 1912, the British liner RMS Titanic set sail from Southampton, England, on its ill-fated maiden voyage.
In 1916, the Professional Golfers' Association of America was founded in New York.
In 1925, the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel "The Great Gatsby" was first published by Scribner's of New York.
In 1932, German President Paul Von Hindenburg was re-elected in a runoff, with Adolf Hitler coming in second.
In 1947, Brooklyn Dodgers President Branch Rickey purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals.
In 1962, Stuart Sutcliffe, the Beatles' original bass player, died in Hamburg, West Germany, at age 21.
In 1968, "In the Heat of the Night" won best picture of 1967 at the 40th Academy Awards; one of its stars, Rod Steiger, was named best actor while Katharine Hepburn was honored as best actress for "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner."
In 1971, a table tennis team from the United States arrived in China at the invitation of the communist government for a goodwill visit that came to be known as "ping-pong diplomacy."
In 1981, imprisoned IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands was declared the winner of a by-election to the British Parliament.
In 1998, the Northern Ireland peace talks concluded as negotiators reached a landmark settlement to end 30 years of bitter rivalries and bloody attacks.
In 2010, Polish President Lech Kaczynski (lehk kah-CHIN'-skee), 60, was killed in a plane crash in western Russia that also claimed the lives of his wife and top Polish political, military and church officials.
Ten years ago: Police in Tracy, California, arrested Sunday school teacher Melissa Huckaby in connection with the death of 8-year-old Sandra Cantu, whose body had been found in a suitcase. (Huckaby eventually pleaded guilty to kidnapping and murdering her daughter's playmate; she was sentenced to life without parole.) French Navy commandos stormed a sailboat held by pirates off the Somali coast, freeing four hostages; however, one hostage was killed in the operation.
Five years ago: A bus carrying 44 students from Southern California for a free tour of Humboldt State University on the state's far north coast collided with a FedEx tractor-trailer near Orland; five students and three adult chaperones died, along with the drivers. A woman was taken into custody after throwing a shoe at Hillary Clinton as the former secretary of state began a Las Vegas convention keynote speech; the shoe missed. KISS, Nirvana and Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band were ushered into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at Brooklyn's Barclays Center. CBS named Stephen Colbert to succeed the retiring David Letterman as host of the "Late Show."
One year ago: During five hours of questioning from a U.S. Senate panel, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg batted away accusations that he had failed to protect the personal information of millions of Americans from Russians intent on upsetting the U.S. election, though he conceded that Facebook needed to work harder to make sure the tools it creates are used in "good and healthy" ways. The international chemical weapons watchdog said it was sending a fact-finding mission to a Syrian town where a suspected chemical gas attack had taken place over the weekend.
Today's Birthdays: Actor Max von Sydow is 90. Actress Liz Sheridan is 90. Football Hall of Famer John Madden is 83. Reggae artist Bunny Wailer is 72. Actor Steven Seagal is 67. Folk-pop singer Terre Roche (The Roches) is 66. Actor Peter MacNicol is 65. Actress Olivia Brown is 62. Rock musician Steven Gustafson (10,000 Maniacs) is 62. Singer-producer Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds is 61. Rock singer-musician Brian Setzer is 60. Rock singer Katrina Leskanich (les-KAH'-nich) is 59. Actor Jeb Adams is 58. Olympic gold medal speedskater Cathy Turner is 57. Rock musician Tim "Herb" Alexander is 54. R-and-B singer Kenny Lattimore is 52. Actor-comedian Orlando Jones is 51. Rock musician Mike Mushok (Staind) is 50. Rapper Q-Tip (AKA Kamaal) is 49. Former Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens is 45. Actor David Harbour is 44. Blues singer Shemekia Copeland is 40. Actress Laura Bell Bundy is 38. Actor Harry Hadden-Paton is 38. Actress Chyler Leigh is 37. Pop musician Andrew Dost (fun.) is 36. Actor Ryan Merriman is 36. Singer Mandy Moore is 35. Actor Barkhad Abdi (BAHRK'-hahd AHB'-dee) is 34. Actress Shay Mitchell is 32. Actor Haley Joel Osment is 31. Actress Molly Bernard (TV: "Younger") is 31. Country singer Maren Morris is 29. Actor Alex Pettyfer is 29. Actress-singer AJ (AKA Amanda) Michalka (mish-AL'-kah) is 28. Actress Daisy Ridley is 27. Singer-actress Sofia Carson is 26. Actress Audrey Whitby is 23. Actress Ruby Jerins is 21.
Thought for Today: "Work is something you can count on, a trusted, lifelong friend who never deserts you." — Margaret Bourke-White, American photojournalist (1904-1971).
Several hundred thousand federal workers keep showing up at their jobs every day — screening luggage for explosives, policing prisons, preparing to open tax filing season — even though they aren’t getting paid. You wouldn’t expect that at a private company or, say, in almost any European country. But they keep reporting for work, in the midst of what is now the longest federal shutdown in United States history.
Which raises the question: Why do they keep showing up? 
Lawmakers are beginning to float the idea that perhaps they shouldn’t and that some sort of coordinated absence by federal workers might be the quickest way to persuade President Trump and congressional Democrats to find a deal to end the shutdown:
Workers understand the power they have; a walkout of Transportation Security Administration employees would effectively cripple air travel in the United States, for example. 
But they do not appear close to wielding that leverage. On Wednesday, T.S.A. reported its national rate of unscheduled absences was 6.1 percent, up from 3.7 percent a year ago, but not high enough to significantly worsen wait times in most major airports. 
Here are the reasons more federal workers are still showing up for work despite not getting paid. 
The National Labor Relations Act extends a right to strike to American workers — but it specifically does not give that right to government workers. A law passed during President Jimmy Carter’s administration bars federal workers from striking. When air traffic controllers walked off the job in 1981, demanding better pay and working conditions, President Ronald Reagan ordered them to return to work. When they did not, he fired them. 
For an employee deemed “excepted” from furlough during a shutdown — which is to say, forced to work without pay — walking off the job could carry a similar penalty. Guidance from the federal Office of Personnel Management prohibits excepted employees from taking any sort of leave, including vacation or sick days, during a shutdown. 
“If an excepted employee refuses to report for work after being ordered to do so,” the guidance says, “he or she will be considered to be absent without leave (AWOL) and will be subject to any consequences that may follow from being AWOL.”
Union leaders and federal workers frequently stress that furloughed employees want to be allowed to return to their jobs — and that employees working without pay are doing so largely because they care about their work, be it protecting public lands, inspecting food for safety or catching drug smugglers at the border.
“It sounds corny, I know,” said Jacqueline Simon, the director of public policy for the American Federation of Government Employees, the largest federal workers’ union. But “federal employees are extremely devoted to the mission of their agencies,” she said. “They don’t just fall into these jobs. They believe in public service; they believe in what they do. They’re not just going to walk away. There may come a point when some of them have to, to feed their families, but no one wants to do that.”
The National Air Traffic Controllers Association has seen “no unusual increase” in controllers missing work, the union’s executive vice president, Trish Gilbert, said on Friday. Asked if the controllers’ association would consider organizing a strike, a walkout or another job action if the shutdown continued in the long run, Ms. Gilbert said the union “would not condone or endorse any kind of activity like that.”
“We have taken an oath,” she said. “We know we’re important to the United States economy, and we are going to work. We’re just not getting paid. So even if this drags on, people will come to work.”
At least five lawsuits have been filed against the federal government by groups including the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Treasury Employees Union and the air traffic controllers’ association.
A United States District Court judge ruled on Tuesday against issuing any temporary restraining order that would allow workers to stop coming to work or order them to be paid. But those cases will continue to work their way through the judiciary, with another court date set at the end of the month.
The average federal worker has lost about $5,000 since the shutdown took hold in late December. On Wednesday, the president was expected to sign a bill promising that those workers would receive retroactive pay.
Loyalty does not make workers immune to economic reality; they still need to make mortgage and car payments. In the high-cost Washington area, Ms. Simon said, a T.S.A. employee’s salary starts at $28,000 a year, which “doesn’t give you any cushion for absorbing any interruption in your pay.” 
Reporting the agency’s elevated rate of unscheduled leave on Wednesday, T.S.A. officials said that “many employees are reporting that they are not able to report to work due to financial limitations.” 
Furloughed employees can work other jobs to make ends meet: A staff member with the White House Council of Economic Advisers has begun driving for Uber to pay the bills, the council’s director said this week. But moonlighting is a lot harder for excepted employees, who still must show up at their regular job every day.
With a strong labor market and an unemployment rate hovering around 4 percent, many of those employees might eventually quit to take a job that brings an immediate paycheck. 
An analysis from the online jobs site Indeed suggests that might already be brewing. It looked at job search behavior from mid-December through mid-January for workers at some affected federal agencies, including the I.R.S. and the T.S.A. 
Indeed researchers found that clicks on job listings rose at least 17 percent for each of those worker groups over that period, a sign that employees affected by the shutdown “are searching for jobs more right now than they usually do at this time of year,” said Martha Gimbel, Indeed’s director of economic research.
Ms. Simon said that some workers might eventually be forced to take other jobs if the shutdown stretches on. For now, she said, there is no talk about a coordinated “sickout” or other walkout from work. Federal employees, she said, are “sharing their heartache” with one another — and their indignation.
“They don’t like being treated as hostages,” she said. 
Katie Rogers contributed reporting.
SYDNEY — Oscar-winner Geoffrey Rush won damages of at least A$850,000 ($610,000) on Thursday after a court ruled that the Australian arm of News Corp defamed him by saying he behaved inappropriately toward a co-star in a production of King Lear.
The Federal Court, which found News Corp's Daily Telegraph tabloid in Sydney failed to prove its stories were true, will later determine further damages for economic harm, such as Rush's loss of movie roles and the effect on his career.
"This was in all the circumstances a recklessly irresponsible piece of sensationalist journalism of the worst kind, the very worst kind," Judge Michael Wigney said in a decision read to a crowded courtroom.
Rush, 67, said the articles were hastily compiled because the Telegraph wanted an Australian angle on accusations of sexual assault leveled at U.S. film producer Harvey Weinstein.
Wigney agreed and said the paper failed to properly inquire into the facts before it published.
Daily Telegraph editor Ben English said News was disappointed with the decision and would review the judgment.
Outside the court, Rush said he was pleased to acknowledge the verdict, but added it had been distressing for all involved.
Since the accusations against Weinstein in 2017, scores of powerful men have been accused of sexual harassment or assault in a movement dubbed #MeToo.
Under the headline "KING LEER," and in later articles, the Daily Telegraph said Rush, playing the title role of a 2015 Sydney Theatre Company production of the Shakespeare play, had been accused by a co-star of unspecified inappropriate conduct.
Rush, who won the Best Actor Oscar in 1997 for "Shine" and has since appeared in the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films, said the stories implied he was a major pervert, or guilty of major depravity, and his lawyer sought "very substantial" damages.
Wigney found that readers could have drawn those conclusions, despite the vagueness of the articles, because of the #MeToo climate in which they were published.
The articles did not name the accuser nor detail the conduct, and the actor, Eryn Jean Norvill, did not speak to the newspaper for its story nor want her complaint made public.
Norvill, who played Lear's daughter Cordelia, agreed to testify as part of the paper's defense, and testified that during the production Rush touched her on the breast and humiliated her with sexual innuendo.
On Thursday Justice Wigney questioned her reliability and credibility.
"In my view, Ms Norvill revealed herself to be a witness who was, at times, prone to exaggeration and embellishment," he said. He cited examples of differences between her testimony and that of Rush, who denied behaving inappropriately, and other actors involved in the play, who corroborated Rush's view.
"I stand by everything," Norvill said outside court, reading from a prepared statement.
She and Rush said the case had no winners and had been hurtful. 
"It's been extremely distressing for everyone involved," Rush said at the top of the courthouse steps. 
($1=1.3965 Australian dollars)
 (Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in Melbourne; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
The Trump administration won't allow Major League Baseball and the Cuban Baseball Federation to go forward with a deal that would have allowed Cuban players meeting certain requirements to play in the United States.
The Washington Post reported Monday that the deal, negotiated under the Obama administration but implemented four months ago, was rejected by the White House, which contended it was an illegal agreement with the Cuban government.
Under the deal, MLB teams could have signed Cuban players who met requirements of age and professional playing service. The players could have brought their families in-season and returned to Cuba in the offseason. Current Cuban major-leaguers who came to the U.S. include Jose Abreu, Aroldis Chapman and Yasiel Puig.
The agreement originally was brokered to allow Cubans to play in the United States without defecting and giving up their citizenship. Players could keep 100 percent of a signing bonus, with the MLB paying 25 percent of that amount to the Cuban Baseball Federation as a release fee.
--Chicago Cubs left-hander Jon Lester left his start in the top of the third inning due to left hamstring tightness, the team announced.
Lester apparently sustained the injury while running the bases in the bottom of the second inning of Chicago's home opener against the Pittsburgh Pirates. Lester hit a two-out RBI double against right-hander Jameson Taillon and slid into second, then later slid home to score but got up slowly.
Lester took the mound for the third inning and was pulled after giving up back-to-back singles to start the inning. The 35-year-old struck out four in two-plus innings, giving up three hits and one walk in Chicago's 10-0 win.
--Taillon (0-2), who gave up six unearned runs and four hits, left after two innings and will be re-evaluated after he took at least a glancing blow to the head on a comebacker by Anthony Rizzo.
His faculties appeared normal upon an examination by a doctor, but Taillon will be re-evaluated, the Pirates announced.
--New York Yankees pitcher Luis Severino will undergo an MRI exam to diagnose the source of continued discomfort as he rehabilitates from a shoulder injury, according to multiple reports.
Manager Aaron Boone told reporters that Severino "didn't feel great" after a long-toss session. The 25-year-old right-hander was diagnosed with inflammation of the rotator cuff in his throwing shoulder during spring training and was expected to miss the first month of the season.
--The San Francisco Giants acquired first baseman Tyler Austin from the Minnesota Twins and sent minor league outfielder Malique Ziegler in return.
Austin, 27, was on the Twins' Opening Day roster but was designated for release or assignment Saturday after playing in two games, going 1-for-4. The New York Yankees sent Austin to Minnesota last July as part of the Lance Lynn trade. In 2018, he had 17 home runs and 47 RBIs between the two teams.
Ziegler, 22, was selected by the Giants in the 22nd round of the 2016 draft. In 143 minor league games in the organization, he had a .245 average with nine home runs and 47 RBIs. He will move from high Class-A San Jose to high Class-A Advanced Fort Myers.
--Free agent reliever Craig Kimbrel -- a key contributor to the 2018 Boston Red Sox -- will not be at Fenway Park when the World Series winners receive their championship rings in a ceremony on Tuesday.
MassLive reported that Red Sox president and CEO Sam Kennedy said the two had talked, but the pitcher declined the invitation.
The seven-time All-Star rejected a $17.9 million qualifying offer from the Red Sox in November, instead deciding to seek a long-term contract through free agency. The right-hander, who turns 31 next month, went 5-1 with 42 saves and a 2.74 ERA in 63 appearances last season for the Red Sox.
--Field Level Media
Welcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.
For weeks, President Trump has been criticized for exaggerating the brutality experienced by migrant women on the border as he makes his case for a wall.
A Rose Garden address in January was only one of the times when Mr. Trump has made the claim:
If the president was suggesting that such savagery occurs daily on America’s southern border, then he was indeed exaggerating. News organizations and immigrant advocate groups were quick to express skepticism. Trafficking experts told the news media they had not heard of such an episode.
But there is some truth to the president’s descriptions of the threat of sexual assault and of women who have been duct-taped and bound.
Undocumented women have been duct-taped and tied up before, during and after their migration to the United States, The Times discovered while reporting this story. Maybe not frequently, but it has happened.
“Because I didn’t want to let them, they tied my feet together and my hands behind my back,” a 45-year-old Honduran woman told us in an interview. She said she was raped after her smugglers forced her into prostitution shortly after she illegally crossed the border in Texas. The woman, who now lives in Austin and who asked to be identified by her first name, Lucy, was held captive in a makeshift brothel in the South Texas city of McAllen.
Human smuggling has grown more and more violent, as border security tightens and as the smuggling of people and drugs becomes costlier and riskier. In this particular kind of border crossing, the smugglers are paid thousands of dollars by the migrants, but the relationship resembles not seller and buyer but prisoner and warden.
The smugglers are called coyotes, and the migrants are called pollos, or chickens, and these terms very much reflect the dehumanized nature of a migrant’s journey through the borderlands. Clients are sometimes forced to take off their shoes or strip to their underwear to prevent them from fleeing. The coyotes control when and what the migrants eat, and where they sleep. They decide when their debt can be considered paid.
In one trailer home in Carrizo Springs, Tex., smugglers raped a Salvadoran woman and tortured two men — covering the men’s hands with plastic bags, putting their hands on a stool and pounding their fingers with a hammer — all because their relatives failed to pay the fees.
And the smugglers are not the only culprits.
In 2000, a Border Patrol agent in Arizona, Dennis M. Johnson, was charged with sexual assault and kidnapping after he forced a 21-year-old migrant from El Salvador to disrobe and perform oral sex on him while she was handcuffed with her hands behind her back.
In 2014 near McAllen, three Honduran migrants — a woman, her daughter and her daughter’s 14-year-old friend — crossed the Rio Grande and came across a uniformed Border Patrol agent. The agent, Esteban Manzanares, bound them with plastic police restraints, put silver duct-tape on their mouths and kidnapped them, driving them around in the back of his Border Patrol truck.
“I thought he was going to harm us, because from the moment that he duct-taped our mouths, I felt that that was not normal anymore,” said the woman, 40, who asked to be identified by her initials, M.G.
Mr. Manzanares tried to kill M.G. and her daughter, and then handcuffed the 14-year-old girl to a tree, her mouth still taped. He finished his shift, returned to the tree for the girl, drove her to his apartment and tied her to a bunk-bed, where he repeatedly sexually assaulted her. Her ordeal ended only many hours later, when law enforcement agents closed in on the apartment, and Mr. Manzanares, facing imminent capture, took his own life.
— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.
Manny is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently deployed along the border. Each week they’ll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.
Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.
It’s hard to find one number that encapsulates the myths versus the realities of living in a border city. This one comes pretty close.
It starts with a question about crime. How many murders occurred last year in the South Texas border city of McAllen, the center of the busiest Border Patrol sector and the release point for thousands of asylum seekers from Central America?
Zero.
That’s right — McAllen had zero homicides in 2018, down from seven in 2017, three in 2016 and two in 2015.
How did it happen?
There is cartel-fueled drug violence directly across the border in parts of Mexico, but it largely fails to spillover into McAllen. Undocumented immigrants and drugs are smuggled through McAllen, but the city is largely a crossing point for that flow of people and drugs, not a destination point. Last year’s zero homicides were part of an overall low-crime pattern in the city, which has a population of 142,000. In 1991, about 2,150 cars were stolen in McAllen. Last year, there were 55.
“Right now we have the lowest crime rate in McAllen in a 34-year period,” said the city’s chief of police, Victor Rodriguez. “The crisis is not at the border. The crisis is at the destination points. That’s what gets lost all the time.”
— MANNY FERNANDEZ, reporting from McAllen, Tex.
A woman in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody gave birth to a stillborn baby. The episode was one of several to thrust the issue of caring for migrants in United States custody — especially the youngest — back into the spotlight this week.
Here’s how to go deeper into the conversation.
• House Democrats this week issued subpoenas to three Cabinet officials, escalating a battle against the Trump administration’s policy last yearof separating migrant children from their families. The subpoenas came hours after a House committee sharply questioned an official with the Department of Health and Human Services who oversaw the policy’s implementation. Read more here.
• One issue was this report, from January, that thousands more children might have been separated from their parents at the border last year than the administration initially reported.
• According to a Justice Department report released just ahead of the hearing, the federal government received more than 4,500 allegations of sexual abuse against immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities over a recent four-year period. Read more about the report here.
• The attorney general of California released findings of a state audit of immigrant detention centers. It found detainees faced barriers to medical treatment. Read more at The Los Angeles Times. 
She was 49, a recent immigrant and deeply in debt to a loan shark back home in China when she answered an employment ad three years ago that promised thousands of dollars a month, but offered no job description. She realized too late that she had been tricked into working at a massage parlor in Flushing, Queens, where besides kneading backs, she was expected to sexually service up to a dozen men a day.
Some of the clients were violent, and the boss charged $10 a day for her to sleep on a sofa in a room at the parlor where rats nibbled on her food. “The customers were very terrible,” said the woman, who, ashamed of the stigma of her former profession, asked that her name not be used. “After you perform a service, they would find an excuse to take the money away.” They would, she said, “do even worse things.”
In strip malls across the country, neon signs and brightly colored placards promise hot stones, acupuncture and shiatsu with photos of women or couples receiving relaxing shoulder rubs. But a traditionally Asian form of therapeutic relaxation with deep roots in big-city Chinatowns has spun off a different kind of massage parlor that has little to do with traditional remedies. It has exploded into a $3 billion-a-year sex industry that relies on pervasive secrecy, close-knit ownership rings and tens of thousands of mostly foreign women ensnared in a form of modern indentured servitude.
[Read more about a thriving sex trafficking trade in Florida.]
The frequently middle-aged women who work in parlors with names like Orchids of Asia and Rainbow Spa are often struggling to pay off high debts to family members, loan sharks, labor traffickers and lawyers who help them file phony asylum claims. In some cases, their passports are taken and their illegal immigration status keeps them further in the shadows, with some of them rotated every 10 days to two weeks between spas operated by the same owners. Forced to pay for their own supplies and even their own condoms, many women must sleep on the same massage tables where they service customers and cook on hot plates in cramped kitchens or on back steps.
“We stopped thinking about just cages, bars and chains as the means of coercion,” said John Richmond, the State Department’s top anti-trafficking official. “They are using nonviolent forms of coercion.”
The recent arrest warrant filed against Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots — and the solicitation charges filed against nearly 300 men in multiple jurisdictions as part of the same case — riveted national attention to a stretch of Highway 1 along Florida’s Treasure Coast dotted with strip malls, gas stations and sapphire ocean views. Across the region, parlors were empty and many frequent clients were phoning their lawyers, wondering if more warrants were going to drop.
Law enforcement officials said there were an estimated 9,000 illicit massage parlors across the country, from Orlando to Los Angeles. The epicenter of this national underground is the bustling Chinatown in Flushing, in the New York City borough of Queens. Women — typically Chinese, but also Korean, Thai and East European — arrive at Kennedy International Airport, learn the trade and are sent out to places like Virginia, Iowa, Texas and Florida. Women are recruited locally through ads in Chinese-language newspapers or over the social network WeChat.
“Flushing is the center of this network,” said Lori Cohen, the director of Sanctuary for Families’ Anti-Trafficking Initiative, which has interviewed around 1,000 massage workers over the past five years and helped the 49-year-old immigrant who was sexually assaulted leave the business after she was arrested. “They are showing up in different parts of the country, but all of them have addresses in Flushing, Queens,” she said.
[Read: An epic tragedy in the underground sex industry in Flushing.]
The women are paid just a sliver of the $60 or more the client pays for an hourlong massage. Their real money — and chance at a better life — comes in the form of tips, which they are encouraged or forced to amplify through illegal means.
A 60-year-old former massage worker from Taiwan, who agreed to be identified only by the nickname she commonly uses, Tina, said she was lured into working at a massage parlor in New York a decade ago by the travel agency broker who helped secure her visa to travel to the United States. “People come here and don’t have a place to live,” she said. “These places offer a place to live, and it seems like a nice idea. They say, ‘It’s not safe to keep your passport on hand,’ and they will ask to hold the passport.”
She was arrested several times before getting out of the business, and feels comparatively lucky. One close friend was spirited to Texas by traffickers, she said, had her passport taken and was forced to see eight to 12 customers a day. One day the tearful calls she often received from her friend came to an abrupt halt.
“A lot of the businesses that look like either nail salons or massage places, especially the places that offer massage, there are bad things happening there,” she said. “It’s 100 percent organized crime.”
The ubiquity of the massage parlors offers an accessibility and sheen of normalcy not offered by traditional brothels. And as the massage parlors have expanded even into small-town America in recent years, meticulously detailed review sites like Rubmaps have served as the Yelp and Foursquare of the illicit parlor business, with graphic anatomical descriptions of the women and explicit breakdowns of the sexual services proffered.
Even at illicit parlors, owners and managers can claim ignorance of the additional services offered by employees behind closed doors. The evidence gathered during raids and searches often tells a far different tale. The police say it is common to find ledgers tracking the number of “dates” women have had, as was found in a bust in Dallas in 2016. In one case in Kansas, a search of the premises yielded a notebook with handwritten Chinese-English translations that “included sexually explicit phrases such as ‘did you bring condom’ and ‘happy ending.’”
A federal law enforcement official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because this person is involved in active cases, said that the most common method for smuggling women from Asian countries was either a fraudulent tourist visa or a fraudulent work visa, such as for nursing work. Many came as students, then overstayed to work in the sex industry.
Many women arrive in the United States from China bearing heavy debt burdens and try to find work in restaurants or nail salons. But the money isn’t good enough for the five-figure debts weighing them down. The massage jobs are presented as opportunities for fast, easy money.
“They will talk about how they used to work in a restaurant and it was really hard physically and they couldn’t make that much money, and then they heard from somebody or saw an ad saying they could make a lot more money in a massage parlor,” said Leigh Latimer, a supervising attorney at the Legal Aid Society’s exploitation intervention project in New York.
One reason the Asian massage parlors remain so poorly understood is the extreme reluctance of the women to speak with the police and even with their own lawyers.
“Even though I’ve represented many, many women arrested in unlicensed massage parlors, because of the level of distrust of people working, almost all immigrants, almost all undocumented, they don’t trust even their attorneys enough to let them know what’s happened to them,” Ms. Latimer said.
Some fear retaliation by traffickers to their families in China, and some feel morally indebted to those who helped find them a job, said Chris Muller, the director of training and external affairs at Restore NYC, an anti-sex-trafficking organization.
“This is a powerful exploitation tactic,” he said. “Any favor is implied there is going to be a payment back. ‘Look at what I have done for you. I found you a job. I found you a place to live and this is how you repay me?’”
Small networks of spas are also common, and their ownership structures are complex and opaque. “It’s rare that you have a mom-and-pop business where they’re just running one,” said Lt. Christopher Sharpe of the New York Police Department’s vice section. “Usually if they’re running one, they have a second or a third business.”
Bradley Myles, chief executive of Polaris Project, a nonprofit that works to combat human trafficking, said that the madams arrested on big raids like the recent ones in Florida — known as “mamasans” — are often women in their 60s and 70s who have spent decades in the sex trade but are usually pretty far down in the organization.
Above these site managers is usually a person who appears on paperwork as the massage parlor owner, but is often just a frontman running a shell company. The payouts from the shell company go to what is legally known as the “beneficial owner.”
“Very little is known of the behind-the-scene owners,” Mr. Myles said. “They are hiding behind shell companies, hiding behind mamasans. They are hiding behind fake people.”
In addition, the networks have groups of drivers that help move the women from place to place. Some networks are only two or three layers deep, others four or five.
“I’ve certainly seen indicia of larger networks and indicia of powerful transporters,” said the federal law enforcement official.
The Florida Department of Health disciplined 62 massage parlors or therapists last fiscal year, up from 14 the year before, records show. The agency receives upward of 300 complaints about unlicensed massage facilities each year.
Department inspection reports described women inside the spas living in tight quarters cluttered with essentials, including rolling bath carts stuffed with toiletries, shelves lined with coffee mugs and cooking pots and stashes of assorted snacks. The women slept on individual cots and in some cases appeared to keep their belongings and blankets inside locked plastic trunks.
Their IDs showed that several of them had addresses outside Florida, including in Flushing, N.Y.; Lilburn, Ga.; San Gabriel, Calif.; and Temple City, Calif.
Those who are arrested are not necessarily left to their own resources. When sheriff’s deputies in Martin County, Fla., were interviewing Lixia Zhu, 48, one of the massage parlor employees arrested two weeks ago, it wasn’t long before a New York lawyer arrived and identified himself as her lawyer. The lawyer, Baya Harrison IV, told The New York Times that Ms. Zhu used to work in New York and that her friends had hired him to defend her.
The county sheriff, William D. Snyder, said Ms. Zhu had tearfully told deputies and a public defender about how her passport was kept from her in a locked safe and how the woman she worked for once threatened her by brandishing a gun.
One woman in the Florida sting has been charged with human trafficking, after police officers conducting surveillance saw her shuttling two other women carrying suitcases in and out of a spa in Vero Beach.
Bob Houston, a former F.B.I. agent who now works as a consultant to combat trafficking, said that Thai traffickers often employ elaborate schemes to help women intended for the massage industry apply for tourist visas. The traffickers create false back stories, giving women the appearance of an established life at home, including a spouse and bank account, all to help them qualify for a tourist visa. They even produce fake diplomas from massage schools. The tab is usually $40,000 to $60,000, he said.
“They owe a bunch of money to the people who recruited them,” he said.
In December, 36 people in Minnesota were convicted for their roles in a Thai sex trafficking ring that shuttled hundreds of women from Bangkok to cities across the United States, including Phoenix, Las Vegas, Atlanta and Minneapolis.
The women, referred to as “flowers” by the criminal organizations, were forced to work at massage parlors with no choice about where, when and with whom they performed sex acts until their debts were paid off. They were permitted to move around outside the parlors only with so-called runners working for the organization, evidence in the case showed.
The decision by law enforcement in Florida to focus on patrons of the establishments in such a public way rather than the women working there has generated a lot of fear among clients.
John Musca, a criminal defense lawyer with an office in Vero Beach whose website advertises sex crime defense, said he has received panicked phone calls from many men who frequented the establishments and are worried that the police are about to come knocking.
“There are a great number of folks who are on pins and needles,” Mr. Musca said.
Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
ART OF THE REAL at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (through April 28). Few movies in this annual showcase can be comfortably described as “documentaries” — the goal is to broaden perceptions of what nonfiction filmmaking is and can do. Miko Revereza’s “No Data Plan” (on Friday), for instance, has a hallucinatory quality: Footage of train travel across the United States is used to emphasize the paranoia felt by undocumented immigrants living in America. A major highlight of this year’s edition is said to be the tribute to the Lebanese filmmaker Jocelyne Saab, who died in January. The essay films that constitute her Beirut trilogy (on April 28) reflect on life in that city in the midst of the Lebanese civil war.212-875-5601, filmlinc.org
DOCUMENTARY IN DIALOGUE: WERNER HERZOG at Anthology Film Archives (through April 28). It may be the case that Herzog is eventually better known for his documentaries than his fiction features; they are never simple chronicles of events, but often use a subject to ponder humanity’s insignificance in the vastness of nature and the cosmos. Anthology’s series pairs various Herzog films with other documentaries that highlight the eccentricities of his approach. Herzog’s capital-punishment documentary, “Into the Abyss,” will play back-to-back with the early-1960s documentary “The Chair,” which captures events leading up to a parole hearing for the death-row inmate Paul Crump. Both movies show on Saturday and April 27, and Jill Drew, the daughter-in-law of Robert Drew, a director of “The Chair,” will appear at Saturday’s screening.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
NELSON PEREIRA DOS SANTOS at the Metrograph (April 19-28). Credited as a founder of the Cinema Novo movement, this Brazilian director (1928-2018) and his politically pointed films are perhaps not as frequently revived in New York as they should be. The Metrograph’s retrospective begins with the satire “How Tasty Was My Little Frenchman” (on Friday, Saturday and Monday), inspired by a 16th-century memoir of European colonialism, in which a Frenchman is taken in by an island of cannibals; it continues with dos Santos’s debut feature, “Rio 40 Degrees” (on Friday, Sunday and Tuesday), a cross-section of life in Rio de Janeiro.212-660-0312, metrograph.com
[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]
SEE IT BIG! ACTION at the Museum of the Moving Image (April 19-July 7). The museum gets a jump on summer blockbusters with this series of much-loved pulse-pounders, which kicks off this weekend with Steven Spielberg’s “Raiders of the Lost Ark” (on Friday and Saturday) and some types of movies to which it owes a debt. Spielberg has expressed his admiration for Akira Kurosawa, whose “Seven Samurai” screens on Sunday. “Anne of the Indies” (on Saturday), a highlight of winter’s Tourneur retrospective at the Film Society of Lincoln Center, is a more straightforward B-level swashbuckler, with Jean Peters as a pirate (a profession dominated by men, to put it mildly) and some extremely lush Technicolor cinematography.718-784-0077, movingimage.us
TRILOGIES at Film Forum (April 19-May 16). Strict continuity is optional for the movies in this collection, which have one main attribute in common: There are three of each. The “Godfather” trilogy (showing throughout April) and Satyajit Ray’s Apu series (at the end of April and in May) invite audiences to follow generation-spanning sagas. Other trilogies — Krzysztof Kieslowski’s “three colors” movies (on April 30), Hou Hsiao-Hsien’s youth films from “A Summer at Grandpa’s” (on May 4) through “Dust in the Wind” (on May 5), John Ford’s cavalry westerns (on May 8 and 11) — have only loose thematic links. In some cases, they’ve become trilogies with the benefit of hindsight.212-727-8110, filmforum.org
WILD THINGS: THE FEROCIOUS FILMS OF NELLY KAPLAN at the Quad Cinema (through April 25). Writing about this Argentine-French director’s debut feature, “A Very Curious Girl,” earlier this month, J. Hoberman described it in The New York Times as “a one-time staple of women’s film festivals that never quite became a classic.” The opportunity for a rediscovery continues as this Kaplan retrospective enters its second week with her later features — most, if not all, overlooked in the United States. One is “Velvet Paws” (on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday), which stars Bernadette Lafont (the erstwhile very curious girl) as a psychic who receives a visit from a massage therapist (Caroline Sihol), seeking closure on her husband’s death. They soon discover that he is not only alive, but also married to both of them.212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
[El Chapo was found guilty on all 10 charges. Read our latest story on his conviction.]
Some of the drugs were hidden in passenger cars, concealed in trucks in cans of jalapeños or stashed in tanker trains with ordinary loads of cooking oil. Others were sent beneath the border in sophisticated tunnels.
The 10 weeks of testimony at the trial of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the drug lord known as El Chapo who was convicted on drug conspiracy charges on Tuesday, revealed that his innovative smuggling network typically went through legal checkpoints — not isolated stretches of the border where a wall might be an obstacle.
President Trump’s plan to build a wall along the southwestern border was not mentioned at the trial, but it lurked in the background of Mr. Guzmán’s prosecution, a watershed moment in America’s war on drugs.
The trial, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, was the first time that American federal prosecutors publicly revealed the inner workings of Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa drug cartel, offering the most extensive details yet on the organization’s structure, financing and distribution methods. In doing so, prosecutors relied on firsthand experts: a long list of Mr. Guzmán’s own former underlings and allies.
Though Mr. Trump has primarily pitched his border wall as a way to stop illegal immigration, he has recently suggested that it would also help allay the cross-border drug trade.
“If we build a powerful and fully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border, the crime rate and drug problem in our country would be quickly and greatly reduced,” he said on Saturday. “Some say it could be cut in half.”
He added, “We can stop heroin.”
But the Guzmán trial indicated that stopping the flow of drugs into the United States might be more complicated than that. Through the testimony of people who worked with Mr. Guzmán, prosecutors showed that his cartel for decades was endlessly creative, constantly inventing new methods to circumvent detection.
“What you’re hearing in this trial is what front-line border workers observe throughout,” said Doris Meissner, who served as the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1993 to 2000 and now works at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank.
Ms. Meissner added, “The idea that people are walking drugs across the border as though they are illegal immigrants who would then be stopped by a wall across the border, that is not the pattern.”
But some supporters of the wall have noted that a physical obstacle along the border is needed as a safeguard to ensure the frontier is sealed as much as possible.
“It’s about checking all the boxes: sea, land, air, port of entry and the space between the port of entries,” said James Carafano, vice president for foreign policy and national security at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative-leaning think tank. “Otherwise you’re not implementing an effective border strategy. An effective strategy means that you create the most barriers possible. You don’t just close off one so they have 99 others.”
One thing revealed at Mr. Guzmán’s trial was that among his earliest — and favorite — smuggling methods was sneaking drugs across the border in normal-looking passenger cars with secret compartments hidden in their chassis. Witnesses described how he often split loads among several vehicles to help ensure that at least some of them made the journey undetected.
But Mr. Guzmán also used more dramatic and unusual tactics to transport drugs.
At one point, testimony at the trial showed, Mr. Guzmán sent tons of cocaine across the border in cans of jalapeños marked with the label La Comadre chiles. The cans were stacked on pallets in the backs of commercial tractor-trailers, which simply drove through official border entry points. To protect his product from being found, witnesses said, Mr. Guzmán often placed the cans filled with cocaine in the middle of the pallets, surrounded by cans with actual chiles.
Proponents of the wall have said such a structure could help improve inspections at the border.
“One of the big problems is we have too many people standing on guard between and at points of entry and not enough people doing inspections, analysis and intelligence, so the wall will certainly channel the flow into areas you can manage, analyze and search more thoroughly,” said John P. Walters, the former director for drug control policy for President George W. Bush and the chief operating officer for the Hudson Institute, a conservative think tank. “The wall itself does not stop all flow, but the wall becomes a way to stop all flow.”
He added: “I’m not saying a wall will do everything, but what I’m saying is: How do you try to stop it without a wall?”
But Mr. Guzmán’s methods went beyond regular border crossings. One witness at the trial, Tirso Martínez Sanchez, told jurors in December that he personally helped persuade Mr. Guzmán to use commercial tanker trains that traveled on cross-border rail lines.
According to Mr. Martínez, cartel operatives first created front companies that appeared to be selling legal items like cooking oil. After shipping a few real loads of oil from Mexico to various American cities to make it seem as if the company was legitimate, Mr. Guzmán’s workers then packed cocaine into secret compartments in the tankers and sent them over the border.
In the United States, other operatives received the trains at a network of secret warehouses, which, Mr. Martínez said, were located mostly on rail spurs so that the trains could be driven directly into them from major cargo rail lines.
Sea routes were another, if a bit less frequent, means of moving drugs into the United States. This month, for instance, witnesses testified that Mr. Guzmán once sent a load of marijuana by boat from Mexico north on the Pacific Ocean to the coast near San Diego. The drugs were meant to be unloaded offshore by smaller boats. The shipment never reached San Diego, and three of Mr. Guzmán’s workers were arrested.
The kingpin also sent bulk shipments of cash through normal border checkpoints in the opposite direction — from the United States to Mexico. As early as 1989, in fact, one of Mr. Guzmán’s brothers, Arturo Guzmán Loera, was briefly detained at the Douglas, Ariz., port of entry after border agents there found more than $1 million packed into the tailgate and side panels of his black Ford Bronco.
Mr. Carafano said he understood that drug smugglers would always try to find new methods, and that the wall would simply be “part of the mix.”
He added, “It is part of the tool, but you have to do all three simultaneously: at the port of entry, on the border and you have to do it at sea, so you’re creating just a series of bad options for the smugglers.”
But then there’s the matter of El Chapo’s most famous smuggling method: tunnels.
Early in the trial, Jesus Zambada García, one of Mr. Guzmán’s top logistics chiefs, told jurors how workers had dug a tunnel in the early 1990s under an innocuous-looking ranch house in Agua Prieta, Mexico, that reached a warehouse in Douglas.
The entrance on the Mexican side, Mr. Zambada said, was hidden under a pool table that could be raised off the ground by hydraulic lifts. The lifts were activated by turning what appeared to be an ordinary garden hose valve in the yard outside.
And the tunnel exit in the warehouse in Arizona?
Remarkably, Mr. Zambada said, it was located only blocks from a local office of Customs and Border Protection.
WASHINGTON — House Democratic leaders have put off a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and bigotry after a backlash from rank-and-file lawmakers who said Representative Ilhan Omar, whose comments gave rise to the measure, was being unfairly singled out.
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat, told reporters on Wednesday morning that the language of the resolution was still being drafted and no date for a vote had been set. But by Wednesday afternoon, the uproar over Ms. Omar had spread beyond the House, to the White House and the Senate.
As House Democrats questioned why their leaders had not moved earlier to condemn President Trump for his own racially charged comments, Mr. Trump weighed in on Twitter. Seeking to exploit divisions among Democrats, he chastised them for not taking an immediate and strong stand on anti-Semitism.
“It is shameful that House Democrats won’t take a stronger stand against Anti-Semitism in their conference,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Anti-Semitism has fueled atrocities throughout history and it’s inconceivable they will not act to condemn it!”
But Mr. Trump has been accused repeatedly of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes. His 2016 campaign tweeted out an image of Hillary Clinton in front of a Jewish star, over a pile of money. His final campaign ad railed against “global special interests” as the faces of George Soros, Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs and the Federal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen — all Jewish — crossed the screen. In 2015, Mr. Trump told members of the Republican Jewish Coalition: “You’re not going to support me because I don’t want your money. You want to control your politicians, that’s fine.”
Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who is again running for the Democratic presidential nomination, took the opposite tack and suggested House Democratic leaders were trying to tamp down legitimate discussion of the conduct of the Israeli government.
“What I fear is going on in the House now is an effort to target Congresswoman Omar as a way of stifling that debate,” Mr. Sanders said in a statement. “That’s wrong.”
Earlier in the day, Democrats, including some prominent African-Americans, confronted Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a testy closed-door meeting, demanding to know why they were being pushed to pass the resolution when bigoted comments by Republicans have gone unchallenged.
Representative Ayanna Pressley, Democrat of Massachusetts, said she told leadership that there must be “equity in our outrage,” noting that Ms. Omar, a Minnesotan and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, was being attacked for her faith.
“Islamophobia needs to be included” in the anti-Semitism resolution, she told reporters on Wednesday. “We need to denounce all forms of hate. There is no hierarchy of hurt.”
The closed-door meeting, the weekly gathering of House Democrats at the Capitol, generally involves discussion of the legislative agenda and political strategy. Instead, according to multiple people present, it turned into a gripe session over the treatment of Ms. Omar by her own party.
“What would be the appropriate level of punishment — a public flogging?” Representative Raúl Grijalva of Arizona, the chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, asked in an interview after the meeting.
“We are all responsible for what we say, and there are consequences, whether it is this resolution or something else,” Mr. Grijalva said. “But there is a double standard we have to be aware of. The level of condemnation on Ms. Omar has been really intense.”
The resolution began as a response to Ms. Omar’s suggestion last week that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country,” a remark that her critics say played into the anti-Semitic trope of “dual loyalty.”
Representatives Eliot L. Engel and Nita M. Lowey — both New Yorkers who lead powerful committees — and other Jewish lawmakers discussed the comment over the weekend, bringing in Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Hoyer; by Tuesday, a resolution condemning anti-Semitism was circulating on Capitol Hill, surprising lawmakers who had not heard about it.
By Tuesday night, with members of the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Progressive Caucus pushing back, it became clear to Ms. Pelosi that the measure would have to be rewritten to include a condemnation of anti-Muslim bias. (Ms. Omar, who has been facing accusations of anti-Semitic bias for weeks, has herself been the target of Islamophobic attacks, including a death threat in Minnesota.)
But that was not enough for many lawmakers, especially African-Americans who see Ms. Omar getting singled out as a woman of color, while Democratic leaders have let slide other racist and bigoted remarks — including those of President Trump. According to several people in the room, a number of African-American representatives stood up to challenge Ms. Pelosi.
Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman, Democrat of New Jersey, defended Ms. Omar and said about the resolution, “I don’t think this is a good strategy,” according to one person in the room who took notes.
Ms. Pelosi said that the “picture painted of Ms. Omar is wrong,” but that the House needed to address the issue — and that the caucus was “a family” that needed to unite around its legislative agenda, this person said.
Ms. Pelosi also told the lawmakers that the language of the resolution was still under discussion, and that no date had been set for a vote.
Echoing the speaker, Mr. Hoyer also defended Ms. Omar, saying, “I don’t think she’s anti-Semitic.”
But he said that the House needed to address the comments, adding that there is a “particular danger to this kind of rhetoric, whoever said it.”
Representative Jahana Hayes, a Connecticut Democrat who is black, told Ms. Pelosi that she had “put us in a bad position,” and complained that she had learned of the resolution by watching television. As Ms. Pelosi was responding, Ms. Hayes began digging around in her purse; Ms. Pelosi, thinking Ms. Hayes was talking to another lawmaker in the room, grew visibly irritated, according to a second person present.
Toward the end of the meeting, the first person said, Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana and another African-American, asked why leaders were pushing for a resolution condemning bigotry while ignoring other pressing matters, like the treatment of young black men by the police.
And Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, who is white, made a plea for members to think twice before taking to social media to express controversial opinions, or risk dividing Democrats in a way that enables Republicans to exploit those divisions. “Can we not do this on Twitter?” she asked to laughter.
A little more than a week after prosecutors in Florida charged Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, with soliciting prostitution, what ordinarily would be a minor case has become a legal battle involving some of the most expensive and sought-after lawyers in the country.
To lead his defense, Mr. Kraft, a billionaire friend of President Trump and one of the most powerful owners in the N.F.L., has retained William A. Burck, who was a lawyer in the George W. Bush White House and had a role in the screening of documents related to Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh’s recent Supreme Court nomination. Mr. Kraft has also hired Jack Goldberger, the Florida lawyer who defended Jeffrey E. Epstein, a wealthy New York financier accused of trafficking underage girls for sex.
Mr. Goldberger and Mr. Burck did not return calls for comment, but they could mount an aggressive defense by poking holes in video evidence that may prove that Mr. Kraft did not ask anyone for sex and by arguing that the police violated Mr. Kraft’s Fourth Amendment rights during an improper traffic stop, among other arguments.
Prosecutors in Palm Beach County, Fla., so far have taken a hard line on Mr. Kraft and the two dozen other individuals who have been accused of soliciting prostitution at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa, a massage parlor and salon in a Jupiter, Fla., strip mall about a 30-minute drive from Mr. Kraft’s home in Palm Beach. Last week, they increased the severity of the charges, from second-degree to first-degree misdemeanors.
Prosecutors say Mr. Kraft’s arrest was a part of a larger, six-month investigation into human trafficking at nearly a dozen businesses in Florida.
“Human trafficking is evil in our midst,” Dave Aronberg, the state attorney for Palm Beach County, who is overseeing the cases, said last week. “It is fueled on the demand side.”
Prosecutors have acknowledged that Mr. Kraft and the other men charged in the case probably had no knowledge of whether human trafficking was involved. But Mr. Kraft’s wealth and notoriety have turned what would have been a local story into an international one, so prosecutors will want to avoid appearing to treat him differently, especially if the case involves human trafficking, criminal lawyers in Florida said.
“State attorneys are elected officials, and they are aware of public opinion,” said Eric M. Matheny, a former prosecutor in Miami-Dade County who defends people accused of sex crimes. “They might play hardball, if only for appearance’ sake.”
Mr. Kraft is likely to be in little legal danger. He has been charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting a prostitute, and he faces up to a year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service. But he is unlikely to spend a day in jail. Prosecutors often offer first-time offenders a chance to pay a fine and perform community service, while not admitting fault.
Even if they feel they can win their case, most defendants take the deal rather than augment the shame of being arrested. After a deal is reached, defendants typically have 60 or 90 days to complete their community service and classes. After they prove they finished their obligations, the charges are dropped. The defendants then petition the court to have their records expunged.
Mr. Kraft is in a different position. Like many people facing similar charges, he has pleaded not guilty, but as the owner of a professional football team, he has a strong incentive to try to get the charges dismissed.
His lawyers could ask why the police waited months to install cameras inside the massage parlor. There is also a question of whether the police acted lawfully when they asked Mr. Kraft for identification during a traffic stop after his first visit to the spa, which was caught on video, even though he was a passenger, and not the driver, in the car.
Mr. Kraft’s lawyers could question why the police did not get search warrants earlier if they had suspected that sex was being sold inside and that some of the women were being held against their will. Were the cameras merely installed once authorities learned that Mr. Kraft was a patron and saw an opportunity to gain publicity?
If the video also captured people getting ordinary massages, lawyers could also argue that the surveillance overreached and therefore the video is inadmissible. Also, the video cameras that the police used did not have audio, so there may not be clear evidence of Mr. Kraft asking to pay for sex.
“Just showing a video, you don’t know the conversation that occurred,” Mr. Matheny said. “With prostitution cases, it’s very technical what they say. It can’t be vague.”
Prosecutors may have a witness who can attest that Mr. Kraft asked for sex. In addition, if they enter the video into evidence it may become public, something that Mr. Kraft would most likely want to avoid.
“The state can certainly use the strength of their evidence as a negotiating tool,” said Ron Herman, who worked as a prosecutor in South Florida for six years on cases involving sexual assault or battery and who is now in private practice.
If the video becomes public, or his court case is televised, which is possible in state court in Florida, Mr. Kraft’s problems could go from bad to worse. It would increase the pressure on the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell, to punish Mr. Kraft more severely, and potentially diminish his standing in ownership circles, where he is responsible for helping to negotiate media contracts that produce the bulk of the N.F.L.’s $14 billion in annual revenue.
Mr. Kraft’s lawyers are likely to fight tooth and nail to ensure that the video never becomes public, opening yet another front in a litigation that under normal circumstances would involve little effort or expense.
“If there’s no prior history, it should be resolved,” said John S. Hager, a former criminal prosecutor in Florida now in private practice.
These, of course, are not normal circumstances.
“If Kraft goes to trial and the judge allows the cameras to be played, it will be on national TV, so you compound the embarrassment,” said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., the son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and a former prosecutor in Florida. “Kraft has a severe downside by going to trial. He can win the trial, but he can still lose.”
WASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, conceded on Monday that he could not stave off final passage of a resolution overturning President Trump’s national emergency declaration, setting up a rebuke to Mr. Trump amid signs that the president’s grip even on his own party in Congress may be slipping.
With Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky joining three other Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina — in announcing he would support the measure, Democrats now have the 51 votes they need to secure passage and to force Mr. Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency.
Mr. McConnell is exploring whether he can amend the House-passed resolution of disapproval, to send it back to the House and slow its trip to the president’s desk. Ms. Collins and Ms. Murkowski are both sponsors of a separate resolution, virtually identical to the House resolution, introduced in the Senate last week.
And while a veto is highly unlikely to be overturned, the congressional majority that forces it will stand as a powerful rejection of the tactics Mr. Trump has used to fulfill his top campaign promise to build a wall on the southern border — and will apparently be the first time since passage of the National Emergencies Act of 1976 that Congress has voted to overturn an emergency declaration.
“It simply sends a message that Congress is going to stand up for its institutional prerogatives and abide by the separation-of-powers framework that was carefully worked out by the framers in the Constitution,” Ms. Collins said on Monday. “I truly don’t see this as sending a message at all one way or the other about border security but rather about executive overreach.”
Ross K. Baker, a political scientist and expert on Congress at Rutgers University, said passage of the resolution would amount to a “serious rebuke” of the president.
“It’s Congress saying: ‘This has gone far enough. We’re not going to roll over and play dead for the president,’” Mr. Baker said. “It’s the kind of thing that James Madison had in mind when he laid out in the Federalist Papers the argument for separation of powers and checks and balances.”
Mr. McConnell has not set a date for the vote, but it is expected before March 15, when lawmakers leave for recess; Mr. Paul said on Monday that he believed as many as 10 Republicans would vote for the resolution. Once Mr. Trump issues his expected veto, the matter is all but certain to be settled in the courts, where multiple lawsuits have been filed.
Speaking at an event in his home state of Kentucky on Monday, Mr. McConnell offered a matter-of-fact assessment of the reality facing the White House: “I think what is clear in the Senate is there will be enough votes to pass the resolution of disapproval, which will then be vetoed by the president and then in all likelihood the veto will be upheld in the House.”
Some Republicans are trying to find another way out. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, has urged the president to reconsider using military construction money to fund the wall.
He proposed that Mr. Trump take the additional money from the Treasury Forfeiture Fund and the Defense Department accounts used to support counterdrug activities and efforts to block drug smuggling — congressionally approved funds that the president already plans to use. But Mr. Alexander told reporters on Monday that he had not spoken with the White House about his idea.
Other senators, including Mr. Paul, have raised the possibility of amending the National Emergencies Act to curtail the powers available to the president and give Congress more oversight over a declaration.
Congress has long bristled at what the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. branded the “imperial presidency” — a reference to Richard M. Nixon’s actions during Watergate and the Vietnam War.
Democrats fumed at what they viewed as President George W. Bush’s expansive use of his executive powers; Republicans routinely accused President Barack Obama of exceeding his authority on issues like combating climate change and protecting certain classes of undocumented immigrants.
But Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency to fulfill a campaign promise to build the wall — issued after Congress denied him the money for it — strikes many lawmakers as a direct incursion on a power granted exclusively to Congress in the Constitution: the power of the purse.
“Congress has the power of the purse. Congress is a check on the executive,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a speech on the Senate floor on Monday. “The founding fathers feared probably above all anything else, having dealt with King George in the Revolution, that an overreaching executive was one of the greatest dangers to our democracy.”
Mr. Paul said as much in an opinion piece published late Sunday on Fox News’s website, and again on Monday.
“It’s not like I sat up one day and said, ‘Where do I want to separate myself from President Trump?’ There are political risks to separating yourself from your own party’s president,” he said, adding, “To me, it isn’t even about immigration, it isn’t about a Republican or Democratic president.”
“It’s about Congress versus the president and where the power should be distributed,” he concluded.
In his opinion piece outlining his vote, Mr. Paul went so far as to speculate that Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh — both conservative judges appointed by Mr. Trump to the Supreme Court — would join the majority in ruling against the administration and the national emergency declaration.
“Without question, the president’s order for more wall money contradicts the will of Congress and will, in all likelihood, be struck down by the Supreme Court,” Mr. Paul wrote. “In fact, I think the president’s own picks to the Supreme Court may rebuke him on this.”
Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration — the first time a president has invoked powers under the National Emergencies Act after Congress denied funds — is a particularly thorny issue for Mr. McConnell.
Like many of his conservative colleagues, he warned the president against setting a precedent that future Democratic presidents could seize as a means for carrying out stringent gun control policies or climate change controls. But it was Mr. McConnell, in a speech on the Senate floor, who announced Mr. Trump’s intent to declare a national emergency — and his support for the president’s decision.
On Monday morning, the White House dispatched Zach Parkinson, the deputy director of government communications, to meet with Republican communications aides, according to two people in the meeting, who asked for anonymity to discuss a private meeting. Mr. Parkinson asked the aides to “keep their powder dry” ahead of the vote, and urged them to have their senators reach out to the White House Office of Legislative Affairs with concerns.
Less than half an hour later, Mr. McConnell acknowledged at a news conference in Kentucky that he had “argued, obviously without success, that the president not take this route” because of concerns about setting a precedent future Democratic presidents could take advantage of.
Mr. McConnell said he was involved in discussions with the Senate parliamentarian to see if the one-page resolution that passed through the House could be amended. Both Ms. Collins and Ms. Murkowski have emphasized that their endorsement is for a measure that does not contain additional amendments or more pointed language.
“It’s an interesting question,” Mr. McConnell said in Kentucky, referring to whether he could amend the House language. “It’s never been done before.”
MCALLEN, Tex. — It was dark in the stash house where they kept her, the windows covered so no one could see inside. At first, the smugglers had her cook for the other migrants who had recently crossed illegally into the United States. Then they took her to a room upstairs, locked the door and began taking turns with her.
It was the summer of 2014, and Melvin, a 36-year-old mother of three, had just completed the journey from her native Guatemala, crossing the Rio Grande on a raft before being led to the house in the Texas border city of McAllen.
For weeks in that locked room, the men she had paid to get her safely to the United States drugged her with pills and cocaine, refusing to let her out even to bathe. “I think that since they put me in that room, they killed me,” she said. “They raped us so many times they didn’t see us as human beings anymore.”
On America’s southern border, migrant women and girls are the victims of sexual assaults that most often go unreported, uninvestigated and unprosecuted. Even as women around the world are speaking out against sexual misconduct, migrant women on the border live in the shadows of the #MeToo movement.
[Read: In a Border Courtroom, a Migrant Woman Confronts Her Biggest Fear]
The stories are many, and yet all too similar. Undocumented women making their way into American border towns have been beaten for disobeying smugglers, impregnated by strangers, coerced into prostitution, shackled to beds and trees and — in at least a handful of cases — bound with duct tape, rope or handcuffs.
The New York Times found dozens of documented cases through interviews with law enforcement officials, prosecutors, federal judges and immigrant advocates around the country, and a review of police reports and court records in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. The review showed more than 100 documented reports of sexual assault of undocumented women along the border in the past two decades, a number that most likely only skims the surface, law enforcement officials and advocates say.
In addition, interviews with migrant women and those working with them along the border point to large numbers of cases that are either unreported or unexamined, suggesting that sexual violence has become an inescapable part of the collective migrant journey.
[Read the Newsletter: Yes, There Was Duct Tape: The Harrowing Journeys of Migrants Across the Border. Sign up for Crossing the Border here]
President Trump has used the threat faced by migrant women to make his case for a border wall. “One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico,” he said in January — an estimate that appears to have originated from some limited surveys, one of them by Doctors Without Borders, of women traveling through Mexico.
But less understood is that the violence that befalls migrant women happens not just during the perilous journey through Mexico: Much of it happens after women reach the supposed safety of the United States.
In July, a 23-year-old Honduran woman told the authorities that she was sexually assaulted in a bedroom closet by a smuggler who had helped her and her sister cross into the South Texas city of Mission. The following month, a sheriff’s deputy in San Antonio was charged with sexually assaulting the 4-year-old daughter of an undocumented Guatemalan woman and threatening to have her deported if she reported the abuse. In 2017, a guide leading a group of migrants through the Tohono O’odham Nation’s reservation in Arizona raped a woman from El Salvador twice during a seven-day desert hike, threatening to leave her stranded if she resisted. “I hope I leave you pregnant so you have one of my kids,” he said, the woman told the authorities.
In 2016, a migrant woman fled a stash house in the South Texas city of Edinburg, where she said she had been raped by a smuggler who brandished a machete. In West Texas that same year, two teenage girls reported that they had been sexually assaulted by a Customs and Border Protection officer, who they said forced them to strip, fondled them, then tried to get them to stop crying by offering chocolates, potato chips and a blanket. In an unusual turn, the girls filed legal claims against the federal government, which settled the case in 2018 for $125,000.
At least five of the women who were assaulted — in one case, bound with duct tape, raped and stabbed — were attacked not by migrant smugglers, who are often the perpetrators, but by on-duty Border Patrol agents and Customs officers.
Experts say the actual number of sexual assaults is almost certainly much higher than those documented by prosecutors and the police, because most attacks are never reported. And such attacks don’t end at the border. Women have reported being assaulted in immigration detention facilities, and the federal government over a recent four-year period has received more than 4,500 complaints about the sexual abuse of immigrant children at government-funded detention facilities.
The Times interviewed eight migrant women from Central America who were sexually assaulted between 2013 and 2016 — women still struggling with nightmares, depression and in some cases, thoughts of suicide. One reported that she was attacked in Mexico; six said they were assaulted in South Texas. One said she was attacked in both Mexico and South Texas. The oldest victims were in their early 40s when they were attacked; the two youngest were 14.
Most of their attackers were never prosecuted or identified, and The Times was not able to independently verify the women’s accounts. But all eight women either gave sworn testimony or submitted statements under penalty of perjury to the federal government in order to qualify for visas, and cooperated with the police in the investigation of their cases.
They described a netherworld of fear that coexists with the bustling life of American cities up and down the border. One woman told of being held prisoner in a house that had been turned into a makeshift brothel in McAllen, a city of 143,000 in the Rio Grande Valley. “Nueva carne” — new meat, the smugglers said as she and other migrant women were led into the house, said the woman, Lucy, 45, a migrant from Honduras who, like others interviewed, did not want her last name used.
She said a series of men came into the house over the next several days and raped her. “Because I didn’t want to let them, they tied my feet together and my hands behind my back,” Lucy said.
Gladys, 45, a mother of four from Guatemala, said she was kidnapped by armed smugglers after crossing the border and jumped out of a car to escape, but was captured again. For days, she was held prisoner at a stash house in McAllen and forced to have sex with six men. “I thought it would be better if I died when I fell from the car,” she said.
Law enforcement officials on the border said they had made arrests in many of the cases brought to them and would pursue more if they could. But the majority of women who have been assaulted do not report it, often because their attackers threaten to expose their immigration status — or worse — if they do. One woman, raped repeatedly at gunpoint in a stash house in Phoenix in 2005, said her attacker threatened to sell her 3-year-old daughter if she reported him. Those who do go to the authorities may not know the names of their attackers, or even where the assault occurred. Smugglers make sure their clients are unsure of their whereabouts; if they are detained by Border Patrol, they won’t be able to pinpoint where they were held.
[Read: Open Wounds, Head Injuries, Fever: Ailing Migrants Suffer at the Border]
The women are powerless by almost any measure. Most of the eight interviewed now live in the United States after receiving the victim-related visas. They work in stores, restaurants and factories, most barely making a living. Their English is limited. Many of them have not even told their families what happened.
“They don’t have many defenses,” said Jesus R. Romo Vejar, an Arizona lawyer who has represented many migrant women victimized by sexual assault. “Undocumented women and children are the most unprotected of human beings.”
Here are some of their stories.
Lucy, 45, was raped while being forced to work at makeshift brothels, first in Mexico and then in McAllen. 
When we got to the house, there were many women. It was a big house. I couldn’t see everybody’s face, but there were different women in different rooms for prostitution. I wanted to flee but I was afraid they were going to kill me. They just told us, “You guys don’t have money, so you have to pay with your body.”
When we crossed the river, there was a man waiting, a white guy with tattoos. He was in a truck. We got into the truck. He brought us into a house in McAllen. When we got there, the guy started talking and he said that I was new meat.
When they wanted to have sex with me they had to tie me up because I wasn’t cooperative. They tied my feet together and my hands behind my back and then they’d have sex with me from behind.
Before, I could not talk about this. I would have panic, really serious panic. I didn’t want to leave the house. I didn’t want to talk to anybody. I thought that everyone in the world saw me as a prostitute. I come from a poor family but a very decent family.
It has affected me, yes. But not anymore. I’m kind of enraged. Those guys have mothers and daughters. What they did to us is what they did to women.
Melvin, 36, was raped and forced into prostitution in a locked room at a stash house in McAllen.
I lost count of how long I was there for. It wasn’t me anymore. I think that since they put me in that room, they killed me. They have no mercy. They don’t care that you’re a mother, that you have family. They see someone who doesn’t matter to them.
And I still remember while I was with them there, it was my birthday, and I didn’t want to, not that day. And I remember that he grabbed me and at one point bit me, and when I arrived at the detention center, I still had the bite marks. I told them that it was my birthday. And according to them, the rape that day was for my birthday.
I tried to commit suicide three times. Because you can’t live with all of that. And every time I closed my eyes, the men would appear. You’d shower. You’d close your eyes. They were there. I didn’t want to live with that in my head anymore. But here I am.
J.E., 19, and two other migrants were kidnapped in South Texas by a Border Patrol agent, Esteban Manzanares, when J.E. was 14. He raped her in his apartment in Mission, Tex., and later committed suicide.
He took me and tied me up to a tree. He said he would come back. I was thinking about my little brother, who’s in Honduras, and I’d never see him again. He was about 10, I think. It was hours.
He undid me from the tree and put me in the car. In the apartment, there were two beds on top of the other, children’s bunk beds, and ropes there, too. They were shoelaces. For my wrists and my feet.
My mind was blank. I was trying to understand everything. I didn’t know what to do. My feet were tied up. I would look at him and he had a gun. And that frightened me. I asked him why, and he answered me that he was doing this to me because I was the prettiest one of the three.
There are people who sort of discard you when they know what happened to you. But the majority of my girlfriends do know so they can understand what I went through, and they support me.
V.E.M.L., 39, was raped in the South Texas brush by a smuggling guide. She was apprehended, detained at the Hutto detention center in Taylor, Tex., and later deported.
I knew that they were the ones who were going to take me across, so I knew that I had to stay with them. I never learned his name. I felt nervous about him. He was very strange. I wasn’t sure if he was on drugs. He always stood up and sat down, and stood up and sat down.
The older one walked ahead. The younger one said, “Come with me.”
I said, “Where are we going?” And he said, “We’re going to catch up with them ahead.”
He bit my mouth so I could not cry out. I was scared that it might occur to him to kill me.
Afterwards, he told me to hurry up or he would leave me there on the ground. The guys in the group start saying, “Immigration! Immigration!” I ran toward Immigration. I wanted to get away. But then when they took me and put me in the car, I felt frustrated and alone. I just felt like I couldn’t stop crying. They were all men agents. They kept asking me why I was crying and I couldn’t explain.
When they brought me to Laredo, I told a doctor what happened. He said, “Don’t feel like you’re the only one that this happened to. This has happened to many other women.”
Cindy, 26, and her son Samuel stayed at a stash house in Mexico while waiting to cross the border. She and another woman were raped by a smuggler, and she learned after being apprehended by Border Patrol that she was pregnant. Samuel is now 8. His little brother, to whom Cindy gave the biblical name of Adonai, is 2.
When he entered the room, he had the gun. He took the children out. He had the gun and he pointed the gun at my head when he was attacking us. First he abused me and then he abused her. We’re in his power and we feel like we’re disposable. We can’t do anything because it’s like they tell us, they can kill us and nobody will say anything.
It wasn’t until that test that I knew I was pregnant. In that moment, it was like I had been marked. I had been marked because of what had happened to me, that violation.
I wanted to kill myself. Going to the psychologist, that’s what helped me heal. She told me that we had to talk about it, we had to think about it, and we had to learn to live with our lives moving forward, even with what happened.
My son, I realized he was an innocent bystander in this situation and that it wasn’t his fault. My motivation to keep going in life are my two kids. I thank God because everything that I suffered, they’re the happiness that came out of that.
Chicago Cubs ace Jon Lester will be placed on the 10-day injured list Tuesday and miss "one, maybe two" starts with a hamstring strain, manager Joe Maddon announced.
The left-hander got hurt while running the bases during the Cubs' six-run second inning in Monday's home opener against the Pittsburgh Pirates. He doubled home a run and later scored from second base on a single by Ben Zobrist.
Lester, 35, attempted to come out and pitch in the third inning but was removed from the game due to discomfort. Chicago went on to win, 10-0.
Despite the injury, Lester maintained his sense of humor. "Sometimes when you have elite speed these things can happen," he tweeted Tuesday morning.
Lester is 1-0 with a 2.57 ERA in three starts this season. The five-time All-Star is 178-98 with a 3.49 ERA in 14 major league seasons.
--Field Level Media
A look at what's happening around the majors Sunday:
MIGHTY, MIGHTY MARINERS
Seattle has been swinging big in 2019, entering its series finale against the White Sox leading the majors with 24 homers. All that power has the Mariners off to an 8-2 start, best in club history. Jay Bruce went deep twice and Tim Beckham added a three-run shot in a 9-2 win Saturday over Chicago. Bruce leads the club with five homers, and Beckham and Domingo Santana are next with four each — all three of those players were added in the offseason, part of a rebuild by general manager Jerry Dipoto.
MILE HIGH SPOTLIGHT
Sunday Night Baseball on ESPN makes its first appearance at Coors Field since 2001 when Nolan Arenado and the Rockies host Justin Turner and the Los Angeles Dodgers, who beat Colorado in a one-game tiebreaker for the NL West title last season.
COLD CRUSH
Chris Davis is likely to get back into the lineup for Baltimore still seeking his first hit of 2019. The 33-year-old is 0 for 19 with 11 strikeouts this season — including 0 for 2 Saturday off the bench — and he's 0 for 40 dating to Sept. 14. Davis still has four years left on his $161 million contract, and Baltimore is hesitant to cut him loose. "I'm seeing a guy who's giving a great effort. It's just not happening right now," manager Brandon Hyde said. "We wanted to get him off to a good start. It's not the start he wanted to get off to, but I'm going to continue to play him and continue to support him and find the right matchups for him to try to get him off the schneid early."
ONE STEP AT A TIME
Now that the Reds halted their 30-inning scoreless drought, they'll try to go further and snap a seven-game skid when they play their series finale at Pittsburgh. Cincinnati's longest streak without a run since 2015 ended Saturday when Kyle Farmer hit a two-run homer in the third. But the Reds are winless since taking their season opener against the Pirates under new manager David Bell. They entered Saturday with a major league-low .157 batting average and only three homers. "We've been struggling to get the wins and we need to do that for sure," Bell said. "But at the same time, I think scoring five runs after not scoring for a few days was big. I think we can build on that."
STARTING HOT
Cleveland's starting pitchers have dominated Toronto over the first three games of their four-game set, and Mike Clevinger looks to do the same in the finale. Trevor Bauer pitched seven hitless innings Thursday, Shane Bieber allowed two runs in six innings Friday and Carlos Carrasco became the first Indians pitcher since at least 1908 to strike out 12 over five innings Saturday. Clevinger struck out a career-high 12 in his first start this season against the White Sox, and more swings and misses are likely against a Blue Jays club that has scored two or fewer runs in seven of its 10 games.
MAD MAX
Max Scherzer (0-2, 2.13 ERA) makes his third start in Washington's first eight games of the season when the Nationals play the rubber game of their series against the NL East rival New York Mets at Citi Field. The three-time Cy Young Award winner hasn't lost three straight starts since 2015, his first season in Washington. He faces Zack Wheeler and a Mets team that is 6-2 after hitting five homers off Nationals pitching Saturday.
___
Matt Duchene had a goal and three assists as the Columbus Blue Jackets defeated the host Tampa Bay Lightning 5-1 Friday night, taking a stunning 2-0 lead in an Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.
Tampa Bay lost each of the first two games of the best-of-seven series at home after tying the NHL single-season record for wins (62). Nikita Kucherov, who led the NHL with 128 points this season, was held pointless and had just three shots on goal.
Kucherov's frustration was apparent, as he was assessed a minor penalty for tripping, a major penalty for boarding and a game misconduct for an incident involving Columbus' Markus Nutivaara with 4:26 remaining.
The Lightning star will have a hearing Saturday with the NHL's department of player safety to discuss that hit. Per the NHL, boarding is the grounds on which the league is considering additional discipline -- which could include a suspension.
Islanders 3, Penguins 1
Jordan Eberle and Josh Bailey scored fewer than four minutes apart in the third period of Game 2 of the Eastern Conference quarterfinals for New York, which beat Pittsburgh in Uniondale, N.Y.
The Islanders, who have home-ice advantage for the first time since 1988, hold a 2-0 series lead for the first time since they swept the Edmonton Oilers in the 1983 Stanley Cup. Among NHL, NBA and MLB teams, only baseball's Montreal Expos/Washington Nationals and Pittsburgh Pirates have gone longer without holding a 2-0 series lead.
The Penguins are down 0-2 in a series for the first time since being swept by the Boston Bruins in the 2013 Eastern Conference finals.
Blues 4, Jets 3
Ryan O'Reilly's early-third-period goal was the game-winner as visiting St. Louis beat Winnipeg to claim both road games in the Manitoba capital and stake a 2-0 lead in their opening-round Western Conference playoff series.
With the score tied in the third period in a back-and-forth affair, O'Reilly raced up the ice and used the defenseman as a screen when he shot from the right faceoff dot and hit the mark on the stick side at the 3:46 mark of the final frame. Taking a lead for the third time was the charm for the Blues.
Oskar Sundqvist scored twice for St. Louis, which also got a goal from Patrick Maroon. Patrik Laine, Mark Scheifele and Blake Wheeler scored for Winnipeg.
Knights 5, Sharks 3
Max Pacioretty had a goal and an assist, and William Karlsson and Colin Miller each scored short-handed goals to lead Vegas past host San Jose to even their first-round Western Conference playoff series at 1-1.
Mark Stone and Cody Eakin also scored goals, and Paul Stastny added two assists for Vegas. Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 34 saves for his 76th career playoff win, one behind Mike Vernon for seventh all-time.
Logan Couture had a goal and an assist, Joe Thornton and Tomas Hertl also scored goals, and Erik Karlsson had two assists for San Jose, which finished just 1-for-8 on the power play. Aaron Dell, who replaced Martin Jones at the 6:39 mark of the first period, wound up with 14 saves.
--Field Level Media
Eddie Rosario, the Minnesota Twins left fielder, can’t remember the exact year, but he was a youth baseball player in his native Puerto Rico when he was given the choice of two jerseys: No. 21 or another number.
“I’m not Roberto Clemente,” said Rosario, 27, who now wears one of the next-closest options, No. 20. “I can’t wear that.”
No. 21 is sacred in baseball, particularly to Puerto Ricans, because it was the longtime number of Clemente, the iconic player who hailed from the island. Even as a youngster in Guayama, Rosario knew of Clemente’s importance, which led him to join the majority of Puerto Rican major leaguers in doing something that Major League Baseball hasn’t: decline the use of No. 21 in an effort to essentially retire it.
Of the 235 Puerto Rico-born players who have appeared in the major leagues since Clemente’s death 47 years ago, only 16 have used No. 21 — and none in the past five seasons, according to Baseball Reference.
“That’s very powerful,” said Luis Clemente, 52, one of Roberto Clemente’s sons.
In addition to Roberto Clemente’s accomplishments on the field — a 15-time All-Star, 12-time Gold Glove Award winner, two-time World Series champion with the Pittsburgh Pirates and member of the 3,000-hit club — he was a fierce advocate for Latino players and against Jim Crow segregation. A year after he died in a plane crash on Dec. 31, 1972, while escorting earthquake relief from Puerto Rico to Nicaragua, Clemente became the first player from Latin America inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.
On Monday and Tuesday, Major League Baseball celebrated Jackie Robinson, who broke the color barrier in baseball on April 15, 1947, by having every player wear his No. 42 jersey, which was retired in 1997 and remains the only one to receive that special honor by all 30 teams. Many Puerto Ricans believe the same M.L.B.-wide retirement should also go to Clemente, who also made his major league debut this week, on April 17, 1955.
In the four decades since Clemente’s death, there has been no shortage of movements, campaigns and petitions to retire No. 21. The argument is particularly strong now, as the percentage of Latino players has swelled to nearly 30 percent in the major leagues, and it is even higher in the minor leagues. M.L.B. has made greater efforts to honor the influence of Latinos in general, whether through TV commercials or the Ponle Acento (“Put an Accent on It”) campaign that has led to more authentic renderings of names on jerseys.
At an event in San Juan, P.R., last year unveiling a memorial to Clemente, Gov. Ricardo A. Rosselló of Puerto Rico asked Commissioner Rob Manfred, who was also in attendance, to remove No. 21 from commission.
“His body of work speaks volumes, so I do think that, as Jackie Robinson represents greatness in baseball and so much more, so does Roberto Clemente, particularly for Latinos all over the world,” Rosselló said afterward. “So I think it’s the right time to retire No. 21.”
 Manfred has resisted the idea, saying that iconic players should be recognized in distinctive ways, and has repeatedly pointed to the prestigious Roberto Clemente Award, given annually to a player who embodies sportsmanship and community service, as M.L.B.’s way of honoring Clemente. Manfred has called the award “truly baseball’s highest honor.”
With or without an official directive, many Puerto Rican players have essentially tried to retire the number themselves, passing up chances to use No. 21 throughout their lives. (Clemente’s only major league team, the Pirates, retired No. 21.)
“No Puerto Ricans will use the number because of Roberto Clemente,” Carlos Correa, 24, the Puerto Rican superstar shortstop of the Houston Astros who uses No. 1, said in Spanish. “The way I see it: Roberto Clemente is a figure for Latinos just like Jackie Robinson was for African-Americans. Clemente didn’t just break barriers but inspired other Latinos to get into baseball.”
“I never tried to use No. 21,” added his compatriot Edwin Díaz, 25, the Mets closer who uses No. 39. “That is something where everybody can’t use it.”
Yadier Molina, the St. Louis Cardinals’ star catcher, and Carlos Beltrán, a former star outfielder and current Yankees special adviser, have both won the Clemente Award, and the two Puerto Ricans have also steered away from using No. 21 during their careers.
“You can use it to honor him or you can see it as something you don’t want to touch, because the way he carried the No. 21 is hard for another player to do in the same way,” Beltrán said in Spanish. “It’s not impossible, but it’ll be really hard. You’ll always have that shadow of Clemente, and many players avoid using that.”
Clemente’s legacy remains potent in Puerto Rico, where his likeness dots the island. Near a main entrance of Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, “#Retire21” is painted within a mural of a memorable Clemente image:  tipping his cap to the crowd at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh after notching the 3,000th and final hit of his career. In 2016, No. 21 was officially retired across the island, from the professional winter league named after Clemente down to the youth level.
Not all players avoided the number. Outfielder Rubén Sierra, who spent most of his 20 major-league seasons with the Texas Rangers, and first baseman Carlos Delgado, who played 17 seasons, were among the few Puerto Rican-born players to wear No. 21 during their careers.
Delgado said he used it in the minor leagues and for the 1996 season with the Toronto Blue Jays before turning it over to star pitcher Roger Clemens, a new acquisition and more senior player, in 1997. Delgado returned to No. 21 from 2006 through 2009, when he was with the Mets.
“In my case, the decision wasn’t a hard one,” he said in Spanish in a phone interview. “I thought he was so important that this was a way to recognize him. I understand the other side of the coin, not using the number to honor him, but as long as you honor his memory and his career, I think it’s O.K.”
Even so, Delgado said he was in favor of retiring Clemente’s number because his legacy was comparable to Robinson’s. Delgado, who won the Clemente Award in 2006, said he wasn’t sure why No. 21 hadn’t been retired yet, but he wondered if M.L.B. might feel pressure to also retire a number of an illustrious player from Venezuela or the Dominican Republic, two countries that have produced many successful major leaguers.
Luis Clemente, whose family has worked with M.L.B. on past initiatives involving his father and his legacy, has a different idea on honoring No. 21. He has advocated not only a number retirement but some sort of unique and visible recognition — such as a patch on the jersey or hat — to be worn by the previous year’s Clemente Award winner; he hasn’t had official talks with M.L.B. about the idea.
“My uncle — my dad’s only living brother — feels people will forget if they don’t see the number,” Luis Clemente said. “I don’t think that’s necessarily true. But it has to go hand-in-hand” with a visible reminder.
For now, so many current and former players have taken the matter into their own hands that to some, the issue is settled.
“We recognize what he’s done and we know that the number should be retired,” said Ricky Bones, 50, a former major league pitcher and coach from Guayama, P.R. “In our hearts, it’s retired.”
LIMA, Peru — Former President Alan Garcia mortally wounded himself with a gunshot to his head Wednesday as officers waited to arrest him in a big graft probe that has put Peru's most prominent politicians behind bars and provoked a reckoning over corruption.
Authorities broke through a door at Garcia's mansion in a leafy, upscale neighborhood of the Peruvian capital after hearing gunfire. The 69-year-old former head of state was rushed to a hospital, where a team of doctors performed emergency surgery but could not save him.
"The president, upset over this situation, knowing his absolute innocence ... had this terrible accident," said his lawyer, Erasmo Reyna.
It was a shocking end for a man who twice governed Peru — once in the 1980s and then again more than two decades later. In more recent years, he became ensnared in Latin America's biggest corruption scandal, a sweeping investigation of politicians' dealings with the giant Brazilian construction company Odebrecht.
No country outside Brazil has gone as far as Peru in prosecuting politicians tied to Odebrecht, which admitted in a 2016 plea agreement in the U.S. that it paid nearly $800 million throughout Latin America in exchange for lucrative public works contracts.
Peruvian politicians have described the investigation as a political witch hunt. Prosecutors and anti-corruption advocates insist the arrests show the South American nation is finally holding leaders accountable.
Several leaders called on Peruvians to set aside politics as the nation mourns Garcia, a populist firebrand whose second presidency helped usher in a commodities-led investment boom.
"It doesn't matter your political hue, Peru is in mourning," politician Gilbert Violeta wrote on Twitter. "This is a tragedy for our country."
Condolences poured in from throughout Latin America as leaders recalled a man who at his peak was called the John F. Kennedy of Latin America.
"With virtues and imperfections, he realized great changes that allowed Peru's economy to become one of the fastest-growing in Latin America and in the world," former Mexican President Felipe Calderon said.
Garcia was born into a middle-class family in the capital, the child of a politician father whose party became Garcia's own. He went on to a career marked by epic triumphs and devastating setbacks, a rollercoaster of a political life fueled by his charisma and capacity for reinvention.
Ultimately, though, the former president was an increasingly isolated figure. As investigators closed in, he argued that he was the victim of false testimony about taking bribes from Odebrecht during the construction of Lima's metro. He had not been formally charged.
In December, Garcia sought asylum in Uruguay's embassy, staying there for a little more than two weeks before his request was denied. Uruguayan President Tabaré Vázquez said there was no evidence to support Garcia's contention he was being political targeted.
He vowed to cooperate with any investigation and defended himself up to the day before his death.
"I am not mentioned in any document and in any evidence," he wrote Tuesday on Twitter. "They're left to SPECULATE or invent intermediaries. I never sold out and it's proven."
When authorities arrived Wednesday at Garcia's home, they met him on the staircase to the second floor. He asked for a moment to call his attorney, entered another room and closed the door behind him. Moments later, gunfire rang out. Police found him seated, bleeding profusely, Interior Minister Carlos Moran said.
Supporters who had gathered outside the hospital wept as word of his death spread. Some held each other in embrace. Others cried out. A line of officers in helmets and riot shields stood guard, keeping them at a distance.
His sudden death was sure to provoke reflection both over one of the most storied careers in Peruvian politics and the nation's battle against corruption.
Tall and handsome, Garcia was first swept into office on a wave of optimism in 1985 as Latin America's youngest president at age 36. He was hailed as "the president of hope."
Fed by state spending, wage increases and price controls, Garcia's policies initially created an artificial economic boom. But the state coffers were soon drained, credit dried up and investors fled. Labor strikes demanding wage increases in line with soaring inflation crippled production.
As Peru's economy collapsed, Maoist Shining Path guerrillas surged.
At one point, Garcia was so depressed by his plunging popularity that he did not appear in public for more than a month and reportedly offered the presidency to his blind 88-year-old vice president, Luis Alberto Sanchez.
Garcia backed the candidacy of an independent political unknown, Alberto Fujimori, in the second-round runoff of the 1990 presidential elections to prevent a win by novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, a conservative rival.
Two years after leaving office, Garcia fled the country as Fujimori's new government pursued corruption charges against him.
He was accused, among other things, of taking kickbacks for a Lima electric railway contract and of depositing Peru's reserves in the notorious Bank of Credit and Commerce International, or BCCI, which was later shut down worldwide amid fraud allegations.
On the night of April 5, 1992, Fujimori dissolved Congress, suspended the Peruvian Constitution and sent troops to the home of Garcia, who had been warned of a plot to kill him.
"That was perhaps the first time I felt physical fear in my life, because I understood it was true there would be an attack and that we would die," Garcia later recalled in an interview with The Associated Press.
"I had two pistols with nine rounds each," he said, "and I shot all 18 bullets into the air as they were preparing to knock down the garage wall with a small tank and were coming over the walls."
The soldiers briefly retreated, Garcia said, and he fled by climbing over a neighbor's wall using a ladder. He was later smuggled out of the neighborhood in the trunk of a car and eventually made it to the Colombian Embassy, which granted him safe passage from Peru.
During his exile, he split time between Colombia, which gave him asylum, and Paris, where his wife and four children lived.
Garcia was reviled by most Peruvians, who initially tolerated, even lauded, Fujimori's iron-fisted rule, grateful to him for taming the rebel insurgencies and cleaning up an economic disaster.
But in 2000, Fujimori's autocratic government crumbled amid mushrooming corruption scandals, creating an opening for Garcia's political comeback. The charges were eventually dropped for lack of evidence.
Garcia returned to his homeland in 2001 to seek re-election, casting himself as an elder statesman who had outgrown leftist ideas. He lost narrowly in a second round of voting to U.S.-trained economist Alejandro Toledo. Then he set his sights on the 2006 election.
He was widely viewed as the lesser of two evils when he defeated radical nationalist Ollanta Humala in a runoff. But he was determined to regain the trust of Peruvians, telling them, "I am more mature, and I would be an idiot if I were to commit the same mistakes."
His popularity rose as he implemented austerity measures in a nation beset by poverty. He slashed his own salary by more than half and issued decrees forcing lawmakers to reduce their pay by nearly 40 percent.
He also gained praise by launching programs to bring potable water to poor shantytowns and pledged to build roads, schools and health clinics in rural areas.
On Wednesday night, his body was taken to a memorial service at his party's headquarters, known as the "House of the People," a blue colonial-style building where Garcia once celebrated his presidential victories.
Several men carried his wooden casket through a thick crowd of supporters chanting, "Alan! Alan!"
"He's still with the people!" they cried out.
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Paul Mozur, a technology correspondent based in Shanghai, discussed the tech he’s using.
What are your most important tech tools for reporting in Shanghai, especially with a government known for surveillance?
In China, evading the watchful eyes of the government sometimes feels like an exercise in futility. The place is wired with about 200 million surveillance cameras, Beijing controls the telecom companies, and every internet company has to hand over data when the police want it. They also know where journalists live because we register our address with police. In Shanghai, the police regularly come to my apartment; once they demanded to come inside.
That said, China is big, and the government less than competent. Sometimes the police who come to my door have no idea I’m a journalist. Usually the higher-ups who deal with my visa don’t know about the house visits. The lack of coordination means one of the best things to do is to try to slip through the cracks. Basically, protect yourself but also leave an innocent trace.
I use an iPhone because Apple tends to be more secure than Android. That’s especially true in China, where the blocks against Google mean there are a huge number of third-party Android stores peddling all kinds of sketchy apps.
It’s also important to realize that because Beijing controls the telecoms, your domestic phone number can be a liability. For secure apps like Signal, I toggle the registration lock so that if they try to mirror my phone, my account still has a layer of protection.
To get around the Great Firewall, I use a few different VPNs, which I won’t name because when we do bring them up they usually get new government attention.
In some parts of China, the police will demand to check your phone, usually to delete photos. Having two phones helps with this — to make it even trickier, I have the same case on both phones. But it’s also good to have other ways to protect your data. I use a few apps that disguise themselves as something innocuous but in fact hide and protect data. It’s also always handy to have a USB drive that can plug into your phone and be used to save stuff quickly.
What do you do to keep sources secure?
As my colleague Li Yuan noted, WeChat is a reporter’s best friend in China. Everyone spends huge amounts of time on it. But WeChat is also closely monitored, so when a sensitive topic comes up, I try to guide people to use more secure apps. 
That can also be a problem, though, because setting up an encrypted messaging app can alert the authorities to the person. In light of that, personal meetings also work. Often that means leaving the phone at home, since a device’s microphone can become a listening device. There are also special Faraday bags, which block communications signals and can help you go dark with your phone on you. Sometimes all the surveillance here makes me want to put one on my head. 
In some cases, it’s not possible to get around the government, and you have to make a judgment call about whether the source understands the risks and how severe the punishment might be. Sometimes we go places and it’s not possible to safely interview people, so we don’t. The government frequently wins.
What is the oddest surveillance tech you’ve seen in China?
China is a gadget-loving nation. Often technology that doesn’t totally work is embraced with alacrity. I think my favorite example was the facial-recognition sunglasses that made the rounds last year. The police were rocking these glasses, with a camera that plugged into a smartphone-like minicomputer. The idea was the glasses could identify people as the police looked at them. When I got to try them on, I found out they didn’t work all that well.
In some ways, that doesn’t matter. If you convince people you know everything about them, they’re less likely to break rules. The police officer told me about how they had used the glasses to intimidate a drug smuggler into a full confession. It shows you that tech doesn’t always have to function in order to work.
I actually was talking about that with my editor the other day. When he calls from Hong Kong, there’s a pause of several seconds before the phone connects. It could be the government listening in, or maybe it’s just a slow network. We can’t be sure, but we sure are paranoid, and we often joke about it.
What kind of protections do you take when you travel in China?
The Chinese police are famous for showing up in hotel rooms. They don’t always do it, but it happens enough that when you’re in China, you shouldn’t leave your devices in your room unattended. In 2009, when I returned to my room while reporting out of the western region of Xinjiang, I found a police officer reclining on the bed, smoking a cigarette and casually swiping through the photos on my digital camera. 
To avoid lugging a laptop everywhere I go, I now just travel with two phones and a Logitech Bluetooth keyboard I can use to quickly write up notes or articles directly on the phone. It’s not entirely secure, since there are devices that intercept Bluetooth communications, so for passwords I type directly on the phone.
Other than that, I figure that if the Chinese authorities want to intercept my Bluetooth keyboard signal, they’ll just get an appreciation of how little work my editors have to do to my sterling copy.
It should also be said that for all these precautions, there’s no doubt the authorities have plenty of ways into our communications. It’s almost impossible to stop a determined state actor, but it’s worth making it more difficult.
How do people in China view the privacy awakening in the United States after the Cambridge Analytica scandal and other data snafus? 
The privacy situation is dreadful in China. Personal data of all stripes leaks from companies and government alike. While there’s an assumption of some level of monitoring, many Chinese are as appalled as Americans when it affects them.
Amusingly, even the government doesn’t trust the government. In reporting on data sharing between different ministries, I’ve found that it’s not uncommon for one part of the government to distrust another to the point it won’t share data. At other times, a government branch might not even trust itself to handle data. 
For a country trying to become a superpower of artificial intelligence, big data, cyberspace, innovation and whatever buzzword dominates tech next, it’s a pretty big problem.
Then again, when it comes to poor privacy protection, the United States seems to be doing its best to take on China.
Today in History
Today is Wednesday, April 17, the 107th day of 2019. There are 258 days left in the year.
Today's Highlight in History:
On April 17, 1972, the Boston Marathon allowed women to compete for the first time; Nina Kuscsik was the first officially recognized women's champion, with a time of 3:10:26.
On this date:
In 1492, a contract was signed by Christopher Columbus and a representative of Spain's King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella, giving Columbus a commission to seek a westward ocean passage to Asia.
In 1521, Martin Luther went before the Diet of Worms (vohrms) to face charges stemming from his religious writings. (Luther was later declared an outlaw by Holy Roman Emperor Charles V.)
In 1861, the Virginia State Convention voted to secede from the Union.
In 1924, the motion picture studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was founded, the result of a merger of Metro Pictures, Goldwyn Pictures and the Louis B. Mayer Co.
In 1961, some 1,500 CIA-trained Cuban exiles launched the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in an attempt to topple Fidel Castro, whose forces crushed the incursion by the third day.
In 1964, Geraldine "Jerrie" Mock became the first woman to complete a solo airplane trip around the world as she returned to Columbus, Ohio, after 29 1/2 days in her Cessna 180. Ford Motor Co. unveiled the Mustang at the New York World's Fair. The first game was played at New York's Shea Stadium; the Pittsburgh Pirates defeated the Mets, 4-3.
In 1969, a jury in Los Angeles convicted Sirhan Sirhan of assassinating Sen. Robert F. Kennedy.
In 1970, Apollo 13 astronauts James A. Lovell, Fred W. Haise and Jack Swigert splashed down safely in the Pacific, four days after a ruptured oxygen tank crippled their spacecraft while en route to the moon.
In 1973, Federal Express (later FedEx) began operations as 14 planes carrying 186 packages took off from Memphis International Airport, bound for 25 U.S. cities.
In 1986, at London's Heathrow Airport, a bomb was discovered in the bag of Anne-Marie Murphy, a pregnant Irishwoman about to board an El Al jetliner to Israel; she'd been tricked into carrying the bomb by her Jordanian fiance, Nezar Hindawi. The bodies of kidnapped American Peter Kilburn and Britons Philip Padfield and Leigh Douglas were found near Beirut; they had been slain in apparent retaliation for the U.S. raid on Libya.
In 1991, the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 3,000 for the first time, ending the day at 3,004.46, up 17.58.
In 1993, a federal jury in Los Angeles convicted two former police officers of violating the civil rights of beaten motorist Rodney King; two other officers were acquitted. Turkish President Turgut Ozal died at age 66.
Ten years ago: A day after U.N. inspectors left North Korea, U.S. experts monitoring the communist country's nuclear program also departed after Pyongyang expelled them and threatened to restart its reactor in anger over U.N. criticism of its recent rocket launch. Richard Phillips, the cargo ship captain rescued by Navy snipers from the clutches of Somali pirates, made a triumphant return to his home state of Vermont, insisting, "I'm not a hero, the military is."
Five years ago: Ukraine and Russia agreed on a tentative halt to violence and to calm tensions along their shared border after more than a month of Cold-War style military posturing triggered by Moscow's annexation of Crimea. Nobel Prize-winning author Gabriel Garcia Marquez, 87, died in Mexico City.
One year ago: Barbara Bush, who was both a first lady and the mother of a president, died in Houston at the age of 92; she was survived by her husband, George H.W. Bush, with whom she had the longest marriage of any presidential couple in American history - a marriage of more than 73 years. A Southwest Airlines jet made an emergency landing in Philadelphia after the jet apparently blew an engine, got hit by debris and lost a window; a woman sitting near the window was pulled partially out of the plane and later died. Americans were given an extra day to file their taxes after key elements of the IRS website crashed on deadline day.
Today's Birthdays: Actor David Bradley is 77. Composer-musician Jan Hammer (yahn HAH'-mur) is 71. Actress Olivia Hussey is 68. Actor Clarke Peters is 67. Rapper Afrika Bambaataa is 62. Actor Sean Bean is 60. Former NFL quarterback Boomer Esiason (eh-SY'-uh-suhn) is 58. Actor Joel Murray is 57. Rock singer Maynard James Keenan is 55. Actress Lela Rochon (LEE'-lah rohn-SHAHN') is 55. Actor William Mapother is 54. Actress Leslie Bega is 52. Actor Henry Ian Cusick is 52. Actress Kimberly Elise is 52. Singer Liz Phair is 52. Director/producer Adam McKay is 51. Rapper-actor Redman is 49. Actress Jennifer Garner is 47. Country musician Craig Anderson is 46. Singer Victoria Adams Beckham is 45. Actress-singer Lindsay Korman is 41. Actor Tate Ellington is 40. Actor Nicholas D'Agosto is 39. Actor Charlie Hofheimer is 38. Actress Rooney Mara is 34. Actress Jacqueline MacInnes Wood is 32. Actor Paulie Litt is 24. Actress Dee Dee Davis is 23.
Thought for Today: "I think America is richer in intelligence than any other country in the world; and that its intelligence is more scattered than in any country of the world." — Will Durant, American historian (1885-1981).
LONDON — The European Union has approved a copyright overhaul that aims to give more protection to artists and news organizations but which critics say will stifle freedom of speech and online creativity and punish smaller web companies.
Artists, celebrities and tech experts have spoken out both in favor and against the EU directive, which the 28 member states are required to adopt as law and got final approval from the European Council Monday.
Here's a look at key issues.
___
WHAT DOES THE DIRECTIVE SAY?
The most vigorously debated part of the legislation is a section that makes companies responsible for making sure that copyrighted material isn't uploaded to their platforms without permission from the original creator. It puts the legal onus on platforms to prevent copyright infringement but critics say it will end up having a chilling effect on freedom of expression on the internet and could result in censorship.
Another section of the bill that caused concern requires search engines and social media sites to pay for linking to or offering up snippets of news articles.
___
HOW WILL IT AFFECT INTERNET PLATFORMS?
Some sites would be forced to license music or videos. If not, sites would have to make sure they don't have unauthorized copyrighted material. Critics worry that could lead to costly automatic filtering. And paying for links could create further costs.
That could give tech giants an edge over smaller companies. Google said last year it spent more than $100 million on Content ID, its copyright management system for approved users on YouTube, where more than 400 hours of content is uploaded every minute. The figure includes both staffing and computing resources.
___
HOW WILL IT SHAPE INTERNET CONTENT?
Critics say it could act as censorship and change internet culture.
They say the automatic filters are blunt instruments, deleting some material that should be allowed online. YouTube has warned of unintended consequences, saying that in cases where copyright is uncertain, it would have to block videos to avoid liability.
Some consumers worry that the new rules would bring an end to parodies and viral internet "memes" that have powered online culture and are often based on or inspired by existing songs or movies or other content. The EU denies this.
"The new law makes everyone a loser," said Julia Reda, a lawmaker with the Pirate Party, which campaigns for freedom of information online. "Artists, authors and small publishers will not get their fair remuneration and internet users will have to live with limited freedoms. Artistic diversity has made the Internet colorful, but unfortunately the copyright directive will make the Internet duller."
___
WILL IT HELP CONTENT CREATORS?
It depends on whom you ask. The music industry and other groups that collect royalties say the revamp will help give writers, artists and creators more protection of their rights and incomes, by requiring tech giants such as Apple, Facebook and Google to pay them more for their work.
Some authors and artists fear they won't earn significantly more money but their creativity will be stifled. Google estimates it has paid out more than $3 billion to rights holders through its Content ID system, which was created in 2007.
___
HOW HAVE PEOPLE REACTED?
Some high profile artists have spoken out in favor. Former Beatles member Paul McCartney wrote an open letter to EU lawmakers encouraging them to adopt the new rules.
But many appear worried it will change the internet as we know it. More than 5.2 million people signed an online petition against them. Internet luminaries such as Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, and Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales have spoken out against it. So has the former frontman for the band Fugees, Wyclef Jean, who has said he is better off financially because fans can freely share his music on internet platforms.
Germany wants the rules to be implemented in such a way "that upload filters be averted if possible, and that user rights — freedom of opinion, about which there has been a lot of discussion here — be preserved," government spokesman Steffen Seibert said Monday. Last month, tens of thousands of people marched in cities across Germany to protest against the directive. Poland's leader has said his country will not implement it, arguing it threatens freedom of speech.
___
WHAT'S NEXT?
The EU's member countries have two years to comply by drafting their own national laws. Six countries — Italy, Sweden, Poland, Finland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg — voted against it, so implementation is likely to be uneven, setting the stage for possible legal challenges.
___
Geir Moulson in Berlin contributed to this report.
I’ve been thinking lately about one of my relatives, now of blessed memory. This woman was gracious and kind. Her clothes and makeup were always impeccable; her home was well decorated and welcoming. When you went over for tea, the cups would be porcelain, and the utensils would be sterling silver. The sweetener would come in white paper packets, embossed with the Golden Arches, most likely pilfered from the nearby McDonald’s where she and her girls would go for coffee, and woe betide the server who failed to offer them the senior discount.
This was a woman who could afford to buy a bag of sugar. But she wouldn’t dream of it. Maybe it was Depression-era thrift, or maybe it was the tiny thrill of a tiny theft, the minute dopamine rush you get when you do something that isn’t exactly stealing but isn’t entirely legitimate either.
Her quirk was far from unique. We’ve all seen (or maybe even carried) pocketbooks full of stolen Sweet’N Low or used a guest bathroom where the towels were Egyptian cotton, the countertops were Carrara marble and the soap was a tiny rectangle from a Holiday Inn Express.
The rich are different. Some of them drop six figures to get their children into a college where they didn’t earn a spot.
And some of them seem to be cheap about the weirdest things. There’s our president, who likes to brag about his tremendous fortune and who has twice served an assortment of fast food to championship college football players who came to call. Maybe Mr. Trump, a fast-food aficionado himself, believed that the spread was exactly what the athletes wanted. And maybe it was.
But we know that Mr. Trump has bragged about underpaying contractors who he has said have done shoddy work and has cut workers’ benefits and salaries, being cheap in a way that causes pain and suffering.
We also know that he pretty much lives to troll. So it’s hard for me not to read the bargain-menu feast as intended, at the very least, to enrage the libs and, as a bonus, keep costs down, too.
But maybe Mr. Trump’s behavior makes a kind of sense when you put it in the context of the billionaire thrift-boast, the 0.001 percent variation on the humblebrag. See, for example, Warren Buffett and his reported $18 haircuts, or how he never pays more than $3.17 for breakfast. Or Jeff Bezos, letting the world know about his $81,840 annual salary from Amazon. The Ikea founder, Ingvar Kamprad, flew coach and bought his clothes at flea markets. Queen Elizabeth II is said to reuse wrapping paper. Stars in jewels and couture scarf In-N-Out burgers on their way home from the Oscars.
See? they are saying. Of course we could afford caviar or a fancy car or a fresh roll of wrapping paper. Fame and fortune haven’t changed us. Deep down, we’re just like you!
Which brings us to Robert Kraft, a 77-year-old billionaire, Donald Trump pal, New England Patriots owner and, apparently, a fellow cheap senior. Last month Mr. Kraft was swept up in a statewide sting operation and charged with soliciting sex in a South Florida strip mall. Mr. Kraft is an undisputed billionaire. If he wants to pay for sex, he could hire the most discreet, professional escorts. If it had to be sex with someone at a strip mall, he could have probably bought the entire strip mall — nail salon, Outback Steakhouse and all.
But according to the prosecutors, that’s not what happened. Instead, they say, for two days in a row he visited a seedy-looking storefront called Orchids of Asia Spa, where he spent less than 20 minutes per visit and paid between $100 and $200 for these encounters, one of which involved oral sex, with women who were, according to the police, prisoners, brought over from China with the promise of legitimate jobs. 
These women’s lives sound miserable. They were flown to America. Many were routed through Flushing, Queens, then dispatched to spas all over the country. They would work up to 14-hour days, seven days a week, cooking their meals on hot plates, sleeping on the massage tables, being moved from business to business, sometimes after they’d surrendered their passports to their bosses.
Mr. Kraft wasn’t the only superrich guy who was caught up in this investigation: John Childs, who founded a private equity firm, and John Havens, the former chief financial officer of Citigroup, were also charged.
Mr. Kraft and Mr. Childs have denied the charges. The police say they have taped evidence. But the allegations do present this tantalizing question: If these men are indeed guilty, why are billionaires, with all the discretionary income in the world to pay for sex in a way that’s sane and unlikely to get them in trouble, seemingly looking for intimate companionship and a bargain at the same time? Of all the things to skimp on, why sex?
Maybe the cheapness is part of the fun. Maybe strip-mall sex lets jaded, wealthy men feel as if they’re getting away with something, giving them the same tiny thrill enjoyed by every little old lady with a purse full of purloined Panera napkins.
Maybe it speaks to a puritanical ambivalence about pleasure: The seedy surroundings allow you to simultaneously have your cake and feel bad about eating it, too.
Perhaps it’s the cautionary example Mr. Trump provides. His presidency, of course, has been plagued by revelations that his fixer arranged for significant hush money payments to two women with whom Mr. Trump allegedly had affairs. 
A professional escort (or even just a native, English-speaking one) might be tempted to try for a similar arrangement. And even if she doesn’t, her client presumably would still have to talk to her, to look her in the face and discuss terms, negotiate limits or even just say, “Be quiet, ‘Shark Week’ is on.” No matter how skewed the power dynamics, no matter how briefly, the client has to see her as a person. 
A woman in a place like Orchids of Asia who might not be in the country legally and doesn’t speak your language? She probably doesn’t seem like a threat in the same way. In the eyes of her clients, I imagine, she isn’t a person you’d have to send your lawyer after to pay off, she is barely a person at all. 
If a man, even a billionaire, wants to buy sex, I’ve got no quarrel, as long as both parties are of age and willing. But that same billionaire skimping and paying a relatively paltry amount to a woman who doesn’t want to be there and can’t leave? That’s something else.
Same with the sugar. When your elderly relatives take a few extra napkins from a fast-food place, that’s one thing. But what if they load up at a mom-and-pop restaurant and take the napkin dispenser, too? 
Cheap can be charming, and quirky, or at least understandable. But cutting corners at the expense of small-business owners or casino workers or Trump University students who think they’ll be getting an education is different. Helping yourself to free napkins is one thing; underpaying a prostitute or a victim of sex trafficking? That kind of cheap is a lot harder to understand.
WASHINGTON — The makings of an epic constitutional battle over the executive branch’s power to keep information secret from Congress started to take shape on Friday, as Attorney General William P. Barr began to weigh how much to disclose about the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.
As Mr. Barr officially informed Congress that Mr. Mueller had handed in his long-awaited report about the Trump-Russia investigation to the Justice Department, Democrats on Capitol Hill immediately reiterated their demands to see the entire document — and more.
Democrats have made clear they are also determined to gain access to the Mueller team’s supporting evidence and other investigative files, virtually guaranteeing a fight.
“Now that Special Counsel Mueller has submitted his report to the attorney general, it is imperative for Mr. Barr to make the full report public and provide its underlying documentation and findings to Congress,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, said in a joint statement.
In a letter to Congress on Friday, Mr. Barr said he might release Mr. Mueller’s principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. He is expected to take a longer time to review the broader report for information that is classified, subject to grand-jury secrecy rules or relevant to any open investigation before deciding what to show to Congress.
Mr. Barr also plans to consult with the White House about any confidential internal information, including private conversations of the president, that is potentially subject to executive privilege. Decisions about what to make public will be even more complicated.
The House voted unanimously this month for a nonbinding resolution demanding that lawmakers be permitted to read the entire report and that the public be allowed to see as much as the law allows — even though the Justice Department’s special counsel regulations, written by the Clinton administration after Ken Starr’s investigation into the Whitewater and Monica Lewinsky scandals, do not call for that. They also do not prohibit it.
Asked about the report in recent days, President Trump said he wanted Mr. Barr to “let people see it.”
Regardless of how much of the report is eventually disclosed, Democrats are also pushing for information and material Mr. Mueller gathered but did not put in the report. Such files could include documents and records of interviews with witnesses, as well as any internal memos the Mueller team wrote analyzing negative information about people whom it ultimately decided against indicting.
The Justice Department traditionally opposes turning over such files — especially if they contain information relevant to investigations that remain open. Mr. Mueller has handed off many cases his office developed to regular Justice Department prosecutors for continued pursuit, and there remains a permanently open counterintelligence investigation into Russia.
“We’re definitely on a collision course for a major fight at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue over both the Mueller report, testimony related to it and the underlying case files,” said Andrew Wright, who specialized in executive privilege matters as a White House lawyer in the Obama administration and was a congressional oversight staff member.
Such a fight would play out politically — with accusations by Democrats of a cover-up and by Republicans of legislative overreach — and legally. Democrats would begin with a House subpoena to Mr. Barr, followed by a vote to hold him in contempt over whatever he does not turn over.
The House would then file a lawsuit to enforce its subpoena, asking a court to order Mr. Barr to comply with it. That would require the judge to decide whether Mr. Barr had a lawful basis to disregard the subpoena, including whether any invocation of executive privilege by Mr. Trump was legitimate.
Anticipating a lengthy fight, Democrats have already moved to gain access another way to some of the information Mr. Mueller gathered: by asking his witnesses who provided materials to him to give them copies of the same records. Swiftly recreating as much of Mr. Mueller’s files as possible was a key strategy behind letters the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, sent to 81 people and organizations this month asking for records.
The committee so far has received tens of thousands of pages, but the most sensitive information gathered is available only from Mr. Mueller, leaving plenty to fight over.
The top Democrats on six House committees issued a joint statement on Friday night calling on the Justice Department not only to release to the public “the entire report,” but also to give their panels “the underlying evidence uncovered during the course of the special counsel’s investigation” upon request.
One potential obstacle will be information that is classified, like material that could reveal a secret source of intelligence about the Russian government. The executive branch traditionally limits highly sensitive information to the intelligence committees or even just the top “Gang of Eight” congressional leaders.
Another potential hurdle will be information that Mr. Mueller used a grand jury to gather, such as records and testimony he obtained by subpoena. Federal rules of criminal procedure generally bar disclosure of such materials to outsiders — a limit that, on its face, makes no exception for Congress.
Still, a judge could issue an order permitting grand jury information to be shared with Congress, as happened in 1974 during the Watergate scandal. A key question would be whether the Trump administration consents to such a request — as the Nixon administration did — or fights it.
Notably, for the part of the investigation that focused on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, Mr. Mueller’s team gathered information from witnesses through voluntary F.B.I. interviews that are not shielded by grand-jury secrecy rules, according to lawyers familiar with the matter.
A more sweeping obstacle will be any information that Mr. Trump seeks to shield by invoking executive privilege — the power to keep secret information whose disclosure could inhibit the executive branch’s ability to carry out its constitutional functions, like chilling the candor of internal deliberations.
There are two categories of information that may be protected by executive privilege: communications involving the president — which would most likely apply only to events after Mr. Trump was sworn in — and internal agency deliberations, including investigative files covering the campaign and transition.
But the scope and limits of executive privilege are murky. Courts have held that Congress also has a right to gain access to information it needs to carry out its own constitutional functions of conducting oversight and enacting legislation.
Because these rival imperatives overlap, courts have encouraged presidents and lawmakers to resolve disputes by negotiating compromises to accommodate both branches’ needs, like letting lawmakers read certain documents but not take copies of them. As a result, few disputes have resulted in definitive judicial rulings that could serve as guideposts if both sides dig in over the Mueller files.
In recent years, the line the Justice Department has tried to hold has eroded because Republicans repeatedly demanded and gained access to internal law-enforcement information generated during the Obama era, including going to court to obtain department emails about how to respond to congressional inquiries about the gun trafficking investigation called Fast and Furious.
Republican lawmakers also obtained information about the Hillary Clinton email server investigation, including a record of her F.B.I. interview and — with Mr. Trump’s help — information about the early stages of the Trump-Russia investigation, including an intelligence wiretap order targeting Carter Page, a former adviser to the Trump campaign with links to Russia.
“A constitutional conflict is very likely in this circumstance,” said Mark J. Rozell, author of the book “Executive Privilege: Presidential Power, Secrecy and Accountability.”
“I don’t see the House backing down from its request to get access to the full record, and the president is certainly not going to allow that to happen to the extent that he can stop it,” he added. “This may need a judicial resolution.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Another day of political drama in Britain, a fatal ISIS attack in Syria and the dangers of rapidly melting glaciers in Central Asia. Here’s the latest:
Parliament voted 325 to 306 against a motion of no-confidence in Prime Minister Theresa May, a day after it rejected her plan to withdraw from the E.U.
Many lawmakers from her own party, who just a day earlier opposed her plan, voted to support her government, underscoring the complex politics around Brexit.
What’s next? Mrs. May has to present a Plan B for Brexit. She promised to consult with Parliament and somehow craft a deal that could get approved. But E.U. officials have already said they’re unwilling to reopen negotiations, leaving Mrs. May with little new to offer. There is growing speculation she could ask to postpone Britain’s divorce from the bloc.
Go deeper: The no-confidence vote added pressure on the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, too. He now faces mounting calls for a second referendum on Britain’s split from the E.U.
Analysis: Mrs. May’s failure to corral her own party has upended Britain’s political system, where prime ministers typically exercise iron-fisted control over Parliament.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked President Trump to reschedule the annual speech — typically an occasion for the president to make a case for his policy agenda — citing security concerns from the government shutdown.
Context: The State of the Union address is one of the highest-stakes events for federal law enforcement each year, with the leadership of all three branches of government gathering in one place. The Secret Service, which leads security at the speech, has been affected by the shutdown.
The speech is currently scheduled for Jan. 29, and the invitation to deliver the address is traditionally at the speaker’s discretion.
Why it matters: Rescheduling the speech would have another benefits for the Democrats: taking away a nationally televised platform from the president.
Go deeper: The shutdown is now in its fourth week and has had wide-ranging effects around the country. Here’s a breakdown of all our latest reporting.
A suicide bombing claimed by the terrorist group killed 15 people in the northern city of Manbij, including two American troops and a contractor.
Before the attack, two American troops had been killed in Syria since the U.S. sent forces to the country in 2015.
Why it matters: The attack came just weeks after President Trump ordered the withdrawal of U.S. troops and declared the Islamic State defeated. The news prompted calls from Republicans and Democrats for the president to reconsider the withdrawal. 
On a typical summer day, high above the city of Almaty in Kazakhstan, rivulets of melted ice stream down the edge of the Tuyuksu glacier.
Melting is a normal process in the constant evolution of glaciers. But in a warming climate, snow in winter can’t make up the difference, resulting in a net loss of ice.
Last year, scientists found that the Tuyuksu glacier was melting like mad — parts of it were three feet thinner than they were the year before. The glacier is getting shorter, too: In six decades, it has retreated more than half a mile.
Why it matters: Melting glaciers contribute to rising sea levels, can lead to disastrous floods and alter river ecosystems. On top of that, glaciers feed rivers, which in turn provide water for cities and farmers. Flows will eventually decline, affecting hundreds of millions of people in countries like India, Pakistan and China.
Kenya: The death toll in a terrorist attack by Shabab militants rose to 21 people, Kenya’s president said. All the assailants who stormed a luxury hotel and office complex in Nairobi had been “eliminated,” he added, but the country remained on the highest alert.
Trump and Putin: Since 2016, President Trump has had at least five face-to-face meetings with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. What they said to each other is a mystery — one now drawing fresh scrutiny from Mr. Trump’s critics.
China: A Canadian man sentenced to death by a Chinese court for smuggling drugs intends to appeal, one of his lawyers said. The move could buy time while Canada seeks to secure his clemency, but comes amid a widening diplomatic rift between the two countries.
Afghanistan: New leadership in Kabul has been working to restore order and crack down on crime, bringing a rare sense of hope to the capital city.
Indra Nooyi: The White House is considering the former chief executive of PepsiCo to lead the World Bank, according to several people familiar with the matter. However, the process is still in its early stages — and it’s unclear whether Ms. Nooyi would accept the nomination if chosen.
Australian Open: Rafael Nadal, Sloane Stephens and Roger Federer sailed through the second round. Here’s a look at the only top male tennis pro, Lucas Pouille, currently coached by a woman outside his immediate family. And follow along here for the latest from Melbourne.
‘Rail delay scarf’: A commuter in Germany decided to knit a scarf representing a year of transit headaches, and the four-foot multicolored result turned into a social media sensation, fetching about $8,650 on eBay.
Margaret River: The remote Western Australian region, which boasts stunning landscapes, has leaned into its major food and wine festival to become a new tourist hot spot.
Chennai: There are many reasons to be excited about the South Indian city, our Frugal Traveler columnist found, from good food to beautiful houses of worship.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Add caramelized onions to a classic chicken piccata.
Open-minded medical treatment abroad can be difficult to find. Here are a few helpful resources.
Looking for edginess in East London? We recommend visiting these five places.
The Colorado Cowboy Poetry Gathering celebrates its 30th anniversary this weekend.
It’s followed by the 35th National Cowboy Poetry Gathering in Nevada later this month.
So what defines cowboy poetry?
“If it talks about agriculture or the Western way of life, horses, cattle — it counts,” said Bob Welch, a former editor of American Cowboy magazine.
He added: “If the author has a mustache, that certainly helps.”
(Women do participate, though the field remains male-dominated.)
The tradition dates back to cattle-drive days after the Civil War, when cowhands passed time inventing ballads about their work.
It entered the modern era through people like Baxter Black, a former large-animal veterinarian who wrote lyrics on long drives between ranches — and went on to sell over a million books.
“I would say the people who participate, 90 percent of them have some connection to livestock,” Mr. Black said.
That wouldn’t surprise Mr. Welch: “Since the beginning,” he said, “cowboys have been romantics.”
Gregory Cowles, the Book Review’s poetry editor, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Gore, pinch-running for Ryan O'Hearn -- who drew a leadoff walk off Brad Hand (0-1) -- stole second base and advanced to third on a throwing error by catcher Roberto Perez. Wily Peralta (1-1) pitched a scoreless inning for the victory as Kansas City earned its first walk-off victory of the season.
The Indians had not been swept in a road series of at least three games since May of last year at the New York Yankees. Corey Kluber was chased after 2 2/3 innings, having allowed 11 of the 18 batters he faced to reach base safely.
White Sox 5, Yankees 2
Tim Anderson hit his first career grand slam off Masahiro Tanaka with one out in the top of the fourth inning, and Chicago beat New York at Yankee Stadium.
Anderson came into the game leading the majors with a .444 average after his season-opening 10-game hitting streak ended in Saturday's 4-0 loss. After Chicago fell behind 2-0 early, Anderson lifted Tanaka's 1-1 splitter to right field.
It was Chicago's first grand slam since Yoan Moncada had one on April 18 of last season. It also was the first grand slam by a White Sox player at any version of Yankee Stadium since Frank Thomas off Roger Clemens on Aug. 26, 2003.
Pirates 4, Nationals 3
Jason Martin had an RBI ground-rule double with two outs in the ninth inning off reliever Wander Suero, as visiting Pittsburgh beat Washington, taking two of three games in the series.
Josh Bell led off with a walk off Suero (1-1) and took second on a groundout. He then scored on the Martin double to left that bounced into the Pirates bullpen. The winning pitcher was former Nationals reliever Felipe Vazquez (1-0), who delivered two scoreless innings.
Vasquez fanned Howie Kendrick with the bases loaded for the second out in the ninth before getting hot-hitting Anthony Rendon for the final out on a fly ball to center.
Rays 8, Blue Jays 4
Guillermo Heredia capped a five-run eighth inning with a two-run, pinch-hit home run to help visiting Tampa Bay defeat Toronto and win its fifth straight series to open the season.
Mike Zunino added a two-run, pinch-hit single in the eighth as the Rays took two of three games in the series and have now won six of their last seven games, all on the road. Rays starter Charlie Morton gave up four hits, three walks and one run over 4 2/3 innings. He struck out four. Adam Kolarek (1-0) pitched one perfect inning to pick up the win.
Freddy Galvis and Billy McKinney homered for Toronto, with McKinney also adding two doubles.
Rangers 8, Athletics 7
Two days after coughing up a five-run lead, Texas scored four runs in the bottom of the eighth to finish erasing its own five-run deficit and defeat visiting Oakland.
Rangers pinch hitter Danny Santana, in his first at-bat of the season, tied the game at 7-7 with a two-run triple to deep right off A's reliever Joakim Soria (0-2) in the bottom of the eighth. He then scored the winning run on Delino DeShields' bunt single.
Steven Piscotty and Matt Chapman went deep as Oakland set a franchise mark with its seventh consecutive multi-homer game.
Dodgers 7, Brewers 1
Ross Stripling allowed one run in eight innings to help Los Angeles end a six-game losing streak with a win against visiting Milwaukee.
Stripling (1-1) gave up four hits, struck out three and walked one with his 88 pitches, becoming the second Dodgers starter to go at least seven innings this season.
Alex Verdugo homered and drove in three runs, Chris Taylor had two hits and two RBIs, A.J. Pollock had two hits and scored two runs, and Joc Pederson homered for the second time in the series for Los Angeles.
Braves 7, Mets 3
Julio Teheran tossed six solid innings and earned the win for host Atlanta, which took advantage of a second straight subpar start by reigning National League Cy Young Award winner Jacob deGrom in a victory over New York.
Teheran (2-1) continued to succeed against the Mets by allowing one run on six hits and two walks while striking out six. The 28-year-old right-hander is 10-7 with a 2.35 ERA in 26 career appearances (25 starts) against New York.
DeGrom (2-2) allowed three runs on five hits and four walks while striking out nine over five innings. He entered Tuesday having allowed three runs or fewer in a record 31 straight starts and with 26 straight quality starts, tying the record first set by Bob Gibson in 1967-68, before giving up nine runs over nine innings in this week's starts.
Cardinals 9, Reds 5
Marcell Ozuna belted a pair of homers and drove in four runs as St. Louis posted a victory over Cincinnati to salvage a split of their two-game series in Monterrey, Mexico.
Tyler O'Neill went deep as part of a four-run first inning, and Matt Carpenter homered to lead off a five-run seventh for the Cardinals, who have won six of their last seven games.
Jesse Winker blasted a three-run shot for his fourth homer in five contests, and Michael Lorenzen had an RBI double for the Reds, who saw their four-game winning streak come to a halt.
Diamondbacks 8, Padres 4
Right-hander Zack Greinke pitched seven strong innings and had another big day at the plate as Arizona snapped a four-game losing streak by beating San Diego in Phoenix.
The Diamondbacks avoided a four-game series sweep to the Padres, who had won four in a row. Arizona had 13 hits, including three home runs, with pinch hitter David Peralta delivering a three-run shot in the sixth inning.
Greinke (2-1) gave up four hits and two runs, both coming on solo homers, including one to Manuel Margot to lead off the game. He struck out six, walked one and continued to swing a hot bat against the Padres, going 2-for-3 with two runs, after clubbing two homers at San Diego on April 2.
Red Sox 4, Orioles 0
David Price struck out seven over seven dominant innings as Boston blanked visiting Baltimore.
Price (1-1) gave up just three hits and walked none, and Xander Bogaerts homered and drove in all four runs as Boston won for the fourth time in six games.
The Orioles lost for the ninth time in their last 11 games, struggling on offense a day after snapping a four-game losing streak with a nine-run, 13-hit attack.
Twins 6, Tigers 4
Eddie Rosario went 3-for-4 with a homer and two RBIs, and C.J. Cron homered and drove in three runs as Minnesota pounded out 14 hits in a victory over Detroit in Minneapolis.
Mitch Garver had two doubles and a walk, and Nelson Cruz, Byron Buxton and Jorge Polanco also each had two hits for the Twins, who swept their abbreviated two-game series with the Tigers after the series opener was snowed out on Friday.
Jose Berrios (2-1) overcame a rocky first two innings to pick up his second victory of the season. He allowed four hits and two runs over seven innings, retiring 16 of the last 18 batters he faced. Trevor Hildenberger pitched out of a bases-loaded jam in the ninth to notch his first save.
Angels-Cubs, PPD
The game between Los Angeles and Chicago at Wrigley Field was postponed due to inclement weather, with a makeup date yet to be determined.
The Chicago area woke up to a mix of rain and snow, with temperatures only expected to reach the mid-30s with wind gusts up to 40 mph.
--Field Level Media
WASHINGTON — President Trump has approved a move intended to further choke off foreign investment in Cuba by lifting longstanding limits on American citizens seeking to sue over property confiscated by the Havana government going back to Fidel Castro’s revolution six decades ago, a senior administration official said on Tuesday.
The decision, a sharp departure from the policy of the last three presidents, could open the floodgates to thousands of lawsuits against foreign companies and individuals accused of “trafficking” in seized property. By doing so, Mr. Trump hopes to raise the pressure on Cuba, but risks another rupture with American allies in Europe and Canada that scrambled in vain in recent days to head off the change.
The action will be announced by the State Department on Wednesday and discussed by the president’s national security adviser, John R. Bolton, in a speech in Miami marking the 58th anniversary of the Bay of Pigs operation that failed to topple the Castro government during the early days of John F. Kennedy’s administration. Mr. Trump is trying to force Havana to back off its support for Venezuela’s leader, Nicolás Maduro, whom administration officials said Cuba had propped up with more than 20,000 troops.
In his decision to lift the limits, Mr. Trump brushed aside vigorous protests by European leaders who brought their objections to Washington in recent weeks. Spain’s foreign minister met with Mr. Bolton, and other European officials pressed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, arguing that such a move would harm their businesses as well as the Cuban people.
“We strongly condemn” the move, Alberto Navarro, the European Union ambassador to Havana, was quoted telling reporters. “This will create even more confusion for foreign investments that are helping create jobs and prosperity in Cuba.”
The European Union threatened last week to sue the United States at the World Trade Organization if it proceeded, and suggested that counterclaims could be filed in European courts against American firms that took advantage of the new policy. “The E.U. will be obliged to use all means at its disposal,” the union’s foreign policy chief and trade commissioner wrote in a letter to Mr. Pompeo.
The policy change stems from the Helms-Burton Act passed by Congress in 1996 to target Cuba, but Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama all approved suspensions of the litigation provisions every six months since on the grounds that it could cause international upheaval and clog up American courts.
Mr. Trump suspended the provisions as well until this year, when Mr. Pompeo declared in January that the administration would approve a waiver for only 45 days instead of the traditional six months, a move later extended by another 30 days and finally another two weeks to the beginning of May.
Mr. Pompeo opened the door to the change last month by announcing that the administration would lift the litigation limits specifically for about 200 companies or entities controlled by Cuba’s military, intelligence or security services that are already under sanctions by the United States.
In addition to now authorizing lawsuits against a wider array of possible targets, the administration will also invoke another provision of Helms-Burton that allows the government to deny or withdraw visas from those tied to trafficking property confiscated from American citizens.
The senior administration official previewed the moves for reporters on the condition of anonymity in advance of the official announcement on Wednesday.
The decision to finally impose the Helms-Burton provisions after 23 years reflects the larger reversal of United States policy since Mr. Obama restored diplomatic relations and reopened the American Embassy in Havana. Mr. Obama argued that six decades of embargo and isolation had failed and it was time to try a new approach.
Mr. Trump, however, came into office criticizing his predecessor for naïveté toward Cuba and has unraveled some of the Obama administration’s policies encouraging more interaction with Havana, although he has not broken off diplomatic relations again nor closed the embassy.
Cuba on Tuesday denounced the latest move. “Before they climb euphoric at the crest of their dirty water wave, with evil purposes & lies, here is a touch of reality,” Johana Tablada, a Cuban Foreign Ministry official, wrote on Twitter.
Referring to United Nations votes urging an end to the Helms-Burton economic sanctions, she added: “What the #World truly asked #JohnBolton & #UnitedStates gov., very recently, in #NewYork was to remove its criminal #Blockade & #HelmsBurton against #Cuba.”
Mr. Trump’s decision was a victory for Florida Republicans, who quickly hailed the president.
“Allowing American citizens to sue for stolen property in Cuba and denying foreign nationals involved in trafficking stolen property entry into the United States is a huge step toward cutting off the money supply to the Castro regime,” Senator Rick Scott said in a statement.
Senator Marco Rubio agreed on Twitter: “Allowing U.S. citizens to sue regime for confiscated property in #Cuba is the right thing to do.”
President Trump said last week that he would cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, the home countries of most of the migrants arriving at the United States’ southern border to seek asylum.
The Trump administration has already taken the first step to act on the president’s directive, notifying Congress that it wanted to divert the $450 million allocated to the region. By Monday, though, the administration had not offered details about whether any aid — such as military aid or support to combat drug trafficking — might be exempt from the order.
If the aid withdrawal does go ahead, aid advocates say, it would probably affect the region’s most vulnerable people, including small farmers struggling to adapt to climate change and teenagers pressured to join gangs in a region that is a major drug transit route, according to State Department estimates. Advocates say that, should these threats to lives and livelihoods grow, many more people will take their chances on the road and leave for the United States.
The decision to end aid is likely to provoke anger in Congress, where lawmakers in both parties have supported efforts to address the root causes of migration. If the money is ultimately withheld, it would affect a wide range of programs designed to improve citizen security, promote economic development and encourage accountable government.
Mr. Trump has complained that the governments of the three countries have done too little to halt immigration, and portrayed the withdrawal of aid as punishment for their leaders.
A vast majority of the aid, however, goes to nongovernmental organizations, churches, charities and private contractors that carry out projects for the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development. According to the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights research group, the largest portion of aid has gone to improving security and justice systems, and to preventing violence.
Aid varies from country to country to address their different needs. In El Salvador, where the United States has helped support a broad antiviolence program, 57 percent of the $149 million in aid allocated in 2017 went to projects intended to prevent violence, improve security and community policing, and train judges, prosecutors and public defenders.
In Honduras, where aid reached almost $182 million in 2017, the highest percentage of funds — some 44 percent — went to support programs that improved justice and security, with an additional 30 percent allocated for antipoverty programs among the country’s rural poor.
The aid also supports anticorruption measures by providing funds for international prosecutors who have been investigating graft in Honduras and Guatemala, and a special anticorruption unit in the Salvadoran attorney general’s office. In advance of Guatemala’s elections in June, the United States has also helped finance the country’s electoral agency.
The United States also supported border security and efforts to combat drug trafficking, though those funds accounted for a smaller percentage of the overall aid. The Pentagon set aside millions to improve drug interdiction and to supply equipment and training to counter trafficking in Honduras.
In Guatemala, poverty, rather than violence, is the main driver of migration. More than half of the $178 million in 2017 aid went to programs to alleviate poverty, particularly in the country’s western highlands, where many children suffer from chronic malnutrition.
Economic aid is the next largest block of American support in Central America, after security and related programs. The funds support small businesses in Guatemala, schools in Honduras and job training for at-risk youth in El Salvador, among other projects. Some of the programs are broader, such as an effort to bring down high power costs by connecting electrical grids and financing new infrastructure.
In 2017, $18 million was allocated to help farmers in Honduras diversify their crops and improve productivity, to reduce extreme hunger and poverty; and $14.5 million to help small-business owners, including funds to help create a sustainable system for cacao production.
In Guatemala that year, more than $10 million was designated to help communities adapt to climate change’s effects — such as increased drought and coffee-destroying fungus — and $6.3 million to help the Health Ministry prevent maternal and infant deaths, and prevent H.I.V. infections.
Until a large wave of unaccompanied minors from Central America arrived at the Texas border in 2014, American aid to the region focused on economic growth and law enforcement. But the surge of child migrants, which was in part spurred by the high murder rates in the Northern Triangle, prompted the Obama administration to request more money from Congress for a broader approach to the region.
As a result, aid increased to $750 million in 2016 before beginning to drop under the Trump administration. Over all, Congress allocated almost $2.1 billion to Central America from 2016 to 2018, most of it for the Northern Triangle countries, though agencies have been slow to spend all the money.
Murder rates have fallen in all three countries but poverty remains as entrenched as ever — and it remains difficult to assess how effective the aid has been, particularly over such a short period. Advocates argue that programs need years to take effect.
The Trump administration has also redirected its emphasis toward security and away from the focus on ethical governance. That shift has taken pressure off Central American governments to become more accountable, and both the Guatemalan and Honduran governments have recently pushed back against anticorruption efforts.
Reza Zarrab was a well-connected Turkish-Iranian gold trader known for throwing money around with abandon, paying tens of millions of dollars in bribes to Turkish officials.
When he was arrested in 2016 and jailed at the Metropolitan Correctional Center, an ultrasecure federal lockup in Manhattan, one of the guards, Victor Casado, 36, of the Bronx, saw an opportunity and offered his services.
Over a year, he smuggling in alcohol, cellphones and vitamin C packets, among other things, for Mr. Zarrab in exchange for at least $50,000 in bribes, the authorities said.
Mr. Casado was eventually arrested and pleaded guilty to federal bribery charges last summer. On Friday, Mr. Casado, a former New York City police officer who was forced to resign after he committed perjury in court, stood before a federal judge and was sentenced to three years in prison and three years supervised release.
“This crime is really an assault against an institution — really, our entire system of justice,” the judge, Richard J. Sullivan, said. Mr. Casado’s actions, he said, cast a shadow on the federal justice system. “There’s a presumption among people that the federal courts are incorruptible,” Judge Sullivan said. “You can’t bribe your way through your time at the M.C.C.”
Prosecutors said Mr. Casado was paid off by Mr. Zarrab’s associates, including, on one occasion, a female Turkish lawyer with whom the guard communicated through the encrypted messaging service WhatsApp. The government has not named the attorney.
Before he was sentenced, Mr. Casado expressed remorse for his actions and asked for leniency. “This is not who I grew up planning to be,” he said. “I don’t have a worthy excuse for my actions. I wish I could go back in time and make different decisions.”
Mr. Zarrab, whose prosecution drew sharp criticism from Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has pleaded guilty to violating United States sanctions against Iran and is cooperating with American authorities. Although Mr. Zarrab is in federal custody, he has not been sentenced.
Mr. Casado’s attorney, Florian Miedel, outlined in court papers the damage Mr. Casado had already done to his life. To pay his legal bills and the court-ordered forfeiture, Mr. Casado sold his Bronx condominium and currently sleeps “on a mattress on the living room floor of his mother’s one-bedroom apartment.”
On Friday, several of Mr. Casado’s friends and family attended the hearing in the ninth-floor courtroom. During the proceedings, his fiancée blinked back tears, while other supporters of Mr. Casado looked on solemnly.
Mr. Casado agreed as part of his plea to forfeit $26,500, the amount in bribes that the government was able to document.
Mr. Casado’s lawyers submitted letters vouching for his character and outlining the struggles he faced while growing up in the crime-ridden Hamilton Heights neighborhood of Manhattan, and his work as a youth counselor for the Board of Education.
But federal prosecutors introduced an unusually detailed account of the end of his career as a police officer, noting he was investigated by the Internal Affairs Bureau and found to have lied under oath before a grand jury. He resigned, prosecutors wrote, “in lieu of being indicted.”
The police confirmed that Mr. Casado joined the force in January 2007, and resigned in May 2008.
The bribery case involving Mr. Casado and Mr. Zarrab is not isolated. In August, another guard at the jail, Dario Quirumbay, was arrested and charged by federal prosecutors with smuggling two iPhones and alcohol to inmates in exchange for about $1,200 in bribes. Mr. Quirumbay’s case is still pending.
Mr. Casado was ordered to surrender to a federal corrections facility on Feb. 26. In court, he asked to be incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution in Danbury, Conn., in order to be close to his young son.
New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge exited Saturday's game against the Kansas City Royals with one out in the bottom of the sixth inning with a left oblique injury.
Already with a home run in the first inning -- his fifth of the season -- Judge singled to right field in the sixth but appeared to feel something on the swing. He gingerly ran to first base and was lifted from the game after a brief consultation from trainer Steve Donahue.
Manager Aaron Boone told reporters afterward that Judge was getting an MRI exam. Asked if Judge could avoid a trip to the injured list, Boone replied, "Probably not. No."
New York began the game with 12 players on the injured list, including Giancarlo Stanton (strained left biceps), Gary Sanchez (strained left calf) and Luis Severino (right rotator cuff inflammation).
--The Cleveland Indians activated All-Star shortstop Francisco Lindor from the 10-day injured list ahead of his team's doubleheader against the Atlanta Braves and designated veteran Hanley Ramirez for assignment.
Lindor, who suffered a right calf strain before spring training play began and later sprained his left ankle, hit .417 with two home runs, a double and two RBIs in three games in a rehab stint with Triple-A Columbus.
Lindor is a career .288 hitter who delivered career bests with 38 home runs and 92 RBIs last season. The three-time All-Star finished second in the voting for Rookie of the Year in 2015. Ramirez was hitting just .184 with a double and two home runs in 49 at-bats this season.
--The Boston Red Sox placed right-hander Nathan Eovaldi on the 10-day injured list with a loose body in his right elbow, a move retroactive to Thursday.
The Red Sox called up left-hander Bobby Poyner from Triple-A Pawtucket in a corresponding move. They face the Rays in Tampa Bay on Saturday night.
Eovaldi has yet to get a decision and sports a 6.00 ERA in four starts this season, the first of a four-year deal he signed with Boston in the offseason. The 29-year-old was 6-7 with a 3.81 ERA in 22 games (21 starts) in 2018 but was 3-3 with a 3.33 ERA after being acquired by the Red Sox from Tampa Bay in late July and turned in a superb postseason for the eventual champions.
--A day after the New York Mets placed ace Jacob deGrom on the injured list, he threw in the outfield and told reporters he "felt completely normal."
He played catch from 120 feet in the outfield at Busch Stadium in St. Louis and reported a positive outcome.
The team announced Friday that deGrom would undergo an MRI exam on Monday, but that is now up in the air, manager Mickey Callaway told reporters. DeGrom will meet with team medical director Dr. David Altchek in New York, who will make the call on the MRI.
--The Pittsburgh Pirates placed center fielder Starling Marte and shortstop Erik Gonzalez on the injured list, one day after the two were hurt in a fierce collision chasing after a pop fly.
Marte suffered a bruised abdominal wall while Gonzalez fractured his left clavicle in the collision during Friday's win over San Francisco. Marte was placed on the 10-day IL and Gonzalez went on the 60-day IL.
Pittsburgh recalled shortstop Cole Tucker and outfielder Bryan Reynolds from Triple-A Indianapolis. Both players started Saturday's game against the Giants in their major league debuts.
--Pitcher Gio Gonzalez opted out of his contract with the Yankees and intends to become a free agent, MLB.com reported.
Per the terms of Gonzalez's contract, the Yankees have 48 hours to grant his release or add him to the roster. If he is put on the roster, Gonzalez will be paid a $3 million base salary, along with $300,000 per start.
In three starts at Triple A-Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, he as a 2-1 record with an ERA of 6.00.
--Field Level Media
Atlanta Braves right-hander Arodys Vizcaino will miss the rest of the season after undergoing surgery Wednesday on his right shoulder, the team announced.
Vizcaino, 28, went on the 10-day injured list on Sunday (retroactive to April 11) due to shoulder inflammation. He appeared in four games, allowing one run on three hits with six strikeouts in four innings.
Dr. David Altchek performed the procedure in New York, cleaning up the labrum and also removing scar tissue from the shoulder joint.
Vizcaino is in his sixth season in Atlanta and seventh in the major leagues, also having appeared for the Chicago Cubs in 2014. He is 13-11 with 50 saves and a 3.01 ERA in 206 appearances, striking out 218 batters in 194 1/3 innings.
--Detroit Tigers left-hander Matt Moore underwent season-ending surgery on his right knee, manager Ron Gardenhire told reporters.
Moore was scheduled to undergo surgery to repair a torn meniscus, but more significant damage was discovered. The injury caused an abrupt ending to Moore's first season in Detroit, which signed him to a one-year, $2.5 million deal during the offseason.
Moore pitched 10 shutout innings in his two starts with Detroit. He allowed just three hits and one walk while striking out nine.
--The St. Louis Cardinals placed outfielder Harrison Bader on the 10-day injured list, retroactive to April 14, due to a right hamstring strain.
In a corresponding move, the Cardinals recalled rookie outfielder Lane Thomas from Triple-A Memphis.
Bader has played in 13 games this season as has gotten off to a slow start, batting just .179 to go along with two home runs and five RBIs. In his rookie season in 2018, Bader batted .264 with 12 homers and 37 RBIs.
--Kansas City Royals right-hander Brad Keller and Chicago White Sox shortstop Tim Anderson were ejected after the former hit the latter with a pitch, prompting both teams' benches to clear.
Two innings earlier, Anderson deposited a 3-2 fastball from Keller over the wall in left field for a two-run homer. Anderson punctuated the blast by emphatically tossing his bat, a decision that may have led to fireworks in his next at-bat.
White Sox manager Rick Renteria and Royals bench coach Dale Sveum also were ejected during the incident.
--White Sox outfielder Daniel Palka recorded his first hit of the season and then was demoted shortly after the conclusion of a 10-inning loss to the Royals.
Palka, who is batting .029 with 15 strikeouts in 35 at-bats over 13 games, was optioned to Triple-A Charlotte. The White Sox said they would make a corresponding move on Thursday.
Palka ended his slide of 32 hitless at-bats this season when he hit a soft pinch-hit single to left field off Kansas City right-hander Ian Kennedy in the seventh inning.
--Pittsburgh Pirates shortstop prospect Ji-Hwan Bae received a 30-game suspension without pay from Major League Baseball for violating the Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault and Child Abuse Policy, the commissioner's office announced.
The 19-year-old was found guilty last year in a South Korean court of physically assaulting his former girlfriend on New Year's Eve in 2017, according to The Athletic.
The suspension goes into effect Thursday for Bae, who has appeared in five games this season at Class-A Greensboro. He is 4-for-21 at the plate with three RBIs.
--Field Level Media
A week after an aspiring strongman launched a surprise attack on the Libyan capital, an assortment of criminal gangs and extremists are rushing into the fight against him, raising new questions for the United States and other Western powers that have condemned his attack.
A coalition of militias from around the region has stymied the assault by Gen. Khalifa Hifter, frustrating his predictions of an easy march into the capital, Tripoli, and forcing him to rely on long and circuitous supply lines through the desert to the south.
By Friday his opponents were claiming that his tanks and armored vehicles were running out of fuel.
But an increasingly unsavory cast has joined the coalition against him, including a group closely tied to a militia sanctioned as a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations; an extremist warlord sanctioned for undermining Libya’s stability; and other militia leaders sanctioned for migrant trafficking. That mix so alarms Western powers that some may deem General Hifter the lesser evil.
His portrayal of his fight as a battle against extremists and criminals “becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy,” argued Frederic Wehrey, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Their emergence “gives Hifter and his supporters the narrative they want, so it plays into their hands,” Mr. Wehrey said Friday.
The assault on Tripoli that began last week has threatened to plunge Libya back into full-scale civil war.
United Nations officials said Friday that the week of fighting on the outskirts of the city had killed over 75 people, including seven civilians, and wounded more than 320. Over 9,000 people have been displaced from their homes or have fled the city, they said.
“Our major worry is increasing airstrikes by both sides and the use of heavy artillery,” Syed Jaffar Hussain, the United Nations health organization’s representative in Tripoli, told journalists by phone. “We strongly believe the peak of the crisis is yet to come.”
Libya is one of the world’s largest oil producers, and the head of Libya’s national oil company said Friday that the fighting could “wipe out production.” World oil prices have already surged because of the fighting.
General Hifter, who loosely controls much of eastern Libya, has vowed for years to seize the capital and unite the country, which has been divided since the overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in the Arab Spring uprising in 2011.
Tripoli is the seat of an almost powerless unity government created by the United Nations and publicly backed by most Western governments, including the United States.
Those governments have so far almost universally condemned General Hifter’s effort to take the capital.
General Hifter has depended heavily on foreign backers — primarily the United Arab Emirates and Egypt but more recently on Russia and France, with at least tacit and possibly financial support from Saudi Arabia as well.
Analysts said that chorus of condemnation would make it awkward for the United Arab Emirates and Egypt to intervene overtly to try to help him, as both countries have done in the past.
But on Friday there were signs that the increasingly motley alliance of fighters defending Tripoli might be causing some in the West to hesitate about urging a retreat by the general.
A statement issued Thursday night by the European Union said its member countries “express their concern at the involvement of terrorist and criminal elements in the fighting, including individuals listed by the U.N. Security Council.”
The power vacuum in Libya since Colonel el-Qaddafi’s ouster has allowed regional, Islamist and criminal militias to carve out patches of territory, including for a time a bastion of the Islamic State. The chaos has opened Libya’s borders to migrants and militants, periodically crippled its oil production and drained much of its sovereign wealth fund.
Armed groups on both sides of the current fight for Tripoli have extensive records of abusing civilians, Human Rights Watch said in a statement.
General Hifter’s forces have looted and burned homes, and carried out summary executions. One of his commanders, Mahmoud al-Werfalli, has been indicted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes. Other units in the general’s forces are dominated by Saudi-style ultraconservative Islamists who are hostile to democracy.
The forces defending Tripoli, on the other hand, include four major militias that have ruled the city as a kind of mafia under the ostensible rule of the United Nations-backed government. At least one of them, the Special Deterrence Brigade, is also composed primarily of Saudi-style hard-line Islamists who oppose democracy and sometimes act as vigilante morality police.
All four of the Tripoli militias have profited by extorting protection money from banks and government ministries, according to United Nations experts and an authoritative study by Wolfram Lacher of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs.
The largest is headed by Haitham al-Tajouri, believed to be in his early 30s, who cruises the city in a white G-class Mercedes and posts photos on Facebook of his vacations in Dubai. His habit of wearing labels like Versace or Dolce & Gabbana to the front lines of the battle has become a running joke on Libyan social media. (“Fashionista militia,” one poster called his brigade. “I call dibs on Haitham al-Tajouri’s wardrobe,” said another.)
Those four brigades have been bolstered by the return of more potent militias from the nearby cities of Misurata and Zintan that led the fight to oust Colonel el-Qaddafi in 2011 and have remobilized to stop General Hifter.
They were also joined by Salah Badi, a hard-line Islamist commander from Misurata who had all but receded from public life after he was sanctioned by the United Nations last year for repeatedly undermining Libya’s stability, including in the assault that destroyed the Tripoli International Airport in 2014.
Alongside those forces are notorious migrant traffickers, including Abdul Rahman al-Milad, also sanctioned by the United Nations.
Several hard-line Islamists previously based in the eastern city of Benghazi who had scattered after General Hifter took over the city in 2017 have also returned in Tripoli, talking openly about revenge against him.
One of them, the Benghazi Defense Brigade, had included the militia designated by the United States as a terrorist organization after it played a role in the attack that killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. The brigade’s leader, Mustapha al-Sharkasi, has compared the fight against General Hifter to the start of the uprising against Colonel el-Qaddafi in February and March 2011.
“There is unity and the spirit of February is back,” he said in an online video.
Mohamed Bayou, a former adviser to an earlier Islamist-allied coalition of militias that previously dominated Tripoli, said in a television interview that many of the fighters now battling General Hifter did not support the United Nations-backed government either.
“We do not trust them, but today we are in the same trench,” he said, adding that the militias now entering the battle fight only “for their religion, their freedom and their country.”
The dynamic in Tripoli in some ways resembles what happened when General Hifter first sought to control Benghazi in 2014.
Some hard-line militant groups had been active in Benghazi before he arrived, but General Hifter’s attack on the city prompted other militias to embrace the extremists as partners.
As the extremists grew in prominence, France sent teams of special forces with expertise in urban warfare to help advise him and by 2017 the French had finally helped him take over what was left of Benghazi.
“As happened in Benghazi,” said Mary Fitzgerald, an independent researcher who studies Libya, “Hifter’s offensive on Tripoli is likely to rally radical elements and then his supporters will say, ‘they are all terrorists.’”
SYDNEY — Oscar-winning actor Geoffrey Rush has won his defamation case against a Sydney newspaper publisher and journalist over reports he had been accused of inappropriate behavior toward an actress.
The 67-year-old Australian had sued The Daily Telegraph's publisher and journalist Jonathon Moran over two stories and a poster published in late 2017.
Federal Court Judge Michael Wigney ruled on Thursday that Rush had been defamed. The judge has yet to announce damages.
The reports alleged inappropriate behavior by Rush while he was starring in the Sydney Theatre Company's production of "King Lear" in 2015 and 2016.
Rush won the best actor Oscar in 1996 for his portrayal of pianist David Helfgott in "Shine" and is famed for his portrayal of Captain Barbossa in the "Pirates of the Caribbean" films.
North Carolina didn’t shy from anyone this season, but it didn’t really have to. The Tar Heels beat Duke twice and Gonzaga once, and lost only one game — a November defeat against Texas — to a team that did not make the N.C.A.A. field. They open with Iona (17-15) and then could face Washington, the best team from a weak Pacific-12. Only its last step before the Final Four appears tougher than usual: No. 2 Kentucky. But North Carolina may have some momentum by then.
With Seton Hall trailing Villanova by 2 points in the closing seconds of the Big East tournament final on Saturday night, Pirates Coach Kevin Willard had the ball right where he wanted it: in the hands of the junior guard Myles Powell.
Powell freed himself for a shot — a potential go-ahead 3-pointer that would have given Seton Hall the lead, and perhaps even the title — but sent it a fraction long. The ball hit the back of the rim, the Wildcats ran out the clock, and Willard and Powell didn’t regret a thing.
“I thought it was going to drop,” Powell said.
Said Willard, “I’ll take him shooting the last second-shot every day.”
And why not?
The 6-foot-2 Powell scored 78 points in three games in three days at the Big East tournament, carrying the Pirates to the title game.
His week began with a 31-point effort in a dominant win over Georgetown in which, at one point, he single-handedly outscored the Hoyas, 29-25. He followed that with a 22-point outing in a semifinal upset of Marquette, and then added 25 points, 5 rebounds, 4 assists and 3 steals in the loss to Villanova in the final.
Powering the Pirates, though, is nothing new for Powell, a Trenton native who is averaging 22.9 points, 4.1 rebounds and 2.9 assists in what was expected to be a down year at Seton Hall. The Pirates lost four senior starters after last season and were picked to finish eighth in the league’s preseason poll; instead, Seton Hall wound up third, knocked off Marquette and Villanova late in the year and earned its fourth straight trip to the N.C.A.A. tournament.
Willard credits Powell with continuing the leadership tradition established by the seniors who left after last season: Khadeen Carrington, Angel Delgado, Desi Rodriguez and Ismael Sanogo. But his shooting hasn’t hurt, either: Powell has made 103 3-pointers while shooting 36.3 percent from behind the arc. His supreme confidence in himself, and his team, is just a bonus.
“Myles Powell is the best shooter in the country, period,” Jimmy Salmon, the director of his New Jersey A.A.U. team, said when Powell committed to Seton Hall in 2015. “His game will transcend to the next level.”
Now Powell is headed to his third straight N.C.A.A. tournament. If his performances at Madison Square Garden are any indication, Seton Hall’s opponents are in for a handful.
“We can play with anybody in the country,” Powell said. “We just beat Marquette twice, ’Nova last week, and they were the top two teams in our conference. And today, we gave ’Nova a hard fight. We know we can play with anybody in the country when we’re playing our basketball.” ADAM ZAGORIA
Auburn won 26 games and the Southeastern Conference tournament this season, but Bruce Pearl will face a lot of uncomfortable questions if the Tigers keep advancing in the tournament. Pearl, whose history includes trouble with the N.C.A.A., had an assistant (Chuck Person) indicted in 2017 for his role in the Adidas recruiting scandal, and he suspended a second coach (Ira Bowman) last week after he was implicated in a scheme to sell admission to the University of Pennsylvania when he worked there.
New Mexico State Coach Chris Jans has what might best be described as a participation-trophy rotation: Everybody plays a little bit. The Aggies have 13 players who average at least 10 minutes a game, but it’s working: Jans’s team won 30 games. “Everybody is a player on our team, so I always have to have a chip on my shoulder, like it’s my last game playing or something,” guard Terrell Brown said. ANDREW DAS
SAO PAULO — More than two dozen heavily-armed men stormed into the center of Guararema early on a recent morning, rousing the Brazilian town's residents with the sound of broken glass, explosions - and then gunshots.
Brandishing high-powered rifles, wearing bullet-proof vests and carrying several kilos of dynamite, the gang pulled up in front of the town's main police station. It then set upon an adjoining branch of Banco do Brasil, shattering its windows and doors with crowbars. 
In a coordinated 3 a.m. attack, police said, other gang members hit a Banco Santander Brasil branch two blocks away. They detonated the dynamite in an attempt to blow up ATM machines and vaults in both banks.
Such attacks have become commonplace in Brazil: Last year, an average of two banks or ATM machines were robbed every day, mainly in small towns without a major police presence.
The spoils can be substantial.
Each ATM has four boxes storing up to 2,700 bills apiece, meaning one cash machine stuffed with 100-real bills can yield up to 1 million reais ($263,000). Bank robbers skilled with dynamite - working quickly - will often blow up several ATMs at each bank or go directly for their vaults.
To combat the robberies, Brazil's banks have invested in anti-theft technology, ranging from specialized ATMs to facial recognition cameras. When that fails or the costs become prohibitive, they have simply closed branches; as a result, some towns no longer have easy access to financial services in a country that already has a higher proportion of "unbanked" residents than either China or India.
The rash of bank robberies reflects just one way in which widespread violence is taking a toll on Latin America's largest economy, pushing frustrated Brazilians to elect President Jair Bolsonaro in October on a promise to crack down on crime.
"Crime seeks opportunities," said Rafael Alcadipani da Silveira, a public security expert at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, a think tank in Sao Paulo. "In Brazil, organized crime is very strong, security in small towns is weak and bank raids seem like an easy crime to commit." 
In the Guararema bank robbery, police pursued the gang to a nearby highway, where the two sides exchanged gunfire. Eleven gang members were killed by police.
NOWHERE TO BANK
Brazil's banks, which spend $2.3 billion on security each year, have made headway against the gangs.
Bank raids fell 20 percent last year, to 758 attacks, according to news reports and police records compiled by an association of private security workers, known as Contrasp. 
The tally, which has declined steadily since 2014, does not capture the rising scale of heists like the one in Guararema.
Whereas criminals once knocked over individual ATMs in the street, banks have now moved their machines into bank branches where robbers often blow open a whole row at a time — which only shows up as a single attack.
The shift in tactics illustrates how criminal gangs are adjusting to added security measures by banks, warned Leandro Vilaim, business and operation director at bank industry association Febraban.
"There is no silver bullet," he said. "These measures are short-lived because attacks are always changing in nature. When banks squeeze the bandits, they find a new way out."
Cash machines sold in Brazil, at up to 150,000 reais each, cost roughly double those in the United States.
That reflects the price of tamper-resistant technologies including explosion-resistant safes, ink that stains bills when cash machines are dynamited and an average of 10 specialized sensors to respond to attacks — all of which drives up costs.
"Brazilian ATMs are so robust that if the country was bombed in a war, only cockroaches and ATMs would be left," said Vilaim. 
Other contermeasures include ear-piercing sirens, strobe lights and even fog machines traditionally used at night clubs, deployed to stun thieves. And Brazilian lender Itaú Unibanco Holding is investing in cameras that can identify thieves even when they use disguises. 
Then there is the ultimate deterrent: shuttering a town's branch altogether – an increasingly frequent solution that is leaving a growing number of small Brazilian towns without a single bank or ATM. 
(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2VLM9z9) 
Some 200 towns that had at least one branch as recently as 2016 now have none at all, according to the country's central bank. That is sometimes the result of normal cost cutting, but in many cases a direct result of multiple robberies at the same branch, according to bank executives.
Closures have left some towns with no source of cash, prompting several local prosecutors to file suits against the banks, seeking to reopen the branches.
"The main complaint in those cities comes from merchants. People don't have cash to buy stuff, so it affects the local economy," said Glauber Tatagiba, state prosecutor in Minas Gerais, who has filed suits against lenders.
The southeastern Brazilian town of Minduri, for example, lost its sole branch, run by Banco do Brasil, in July, forcing its 4,000 residents to travel 22 kilometers (14 miles) to São Vicente de Minas to withdraw funds. 
Months later, thieves blasted the ATM in São Vicente de Minas, so customers had to head 33 km in the other direction to the nearest bank in Cruzilia, whose own branch had only recently reopened after an explosion.
"It is tough situation especially for pensioners, who have to travel to withdraw money as few merchants take cards here," said Minduri municipal administrator Lucas Magalhães. 
ARMORED CARS AND RIFLES
 What sets Brazil apart from other regions where ATMs are targeted, including parts of Europe and Africa, are the frequency of attacks, according to security experts, along with Brazilians' explosive of choice.
In other parts of the world, explosive gas is usually used to blow up ATMs. But Brazil's gangs have shown a taste for dynamite, usually stolen from mines and construction sites.
One dynamite stick strategically placed in a cash machine can send thousands of bank bills flying within seconds, ready to be bagged by waiting accomplices. Preparation, however, takes much longer, as the thieves carefully put together gangs of at least 10 people, each with their own skill set.
Gangs are equipped with high-powered military gear, often including tactical bulletproof vests, gloves, balaclavas, armored cars and .50 caliber rifles, said Pedro Ivo dos Santos, who heads the anti-bank robbery task force in São Paulo.
Even if the thieves' equipment is second-hand or stolen, he added in an interview, the price tag for such an arsenal would run around 400,000 reais. Many police departments don't have the resources to compete.
Once a gang targets an ATM, they assign specific jobs to perform during what typically amounts to a four-minute robbery. Some scatter metal road spikes to pierce the tires of police cars, for instance, while others specialize in opening the cash machines and inserting dynamite. 
"ATM bombing is just the tip of the iceberg. Thieves usually start by robbing banks and later on use the proceeds to finance drug trafficking, in a move they see as career development," said commissioner Santos.
 (Reporting by Carolina Mandl; Editing by Christian Plumb and Paul Thomasch)
BAYONNE, France — The government in Paris disapproves. But the local mayor doesn’t care. He says he will continue sheltering the Africans crossing the Spanish border into France.
For Jean-René Etchegaray, mayor of Bayonne, a quiet and refined city in the French Basque Country, 22 miles from the border, it is a matter of necessity and humanitarian obligation.
Since Italy all but closed its borders to migrants and  France has tried to close its border to migrants coming from Italy, Spain has become the prime gateway into Europe for migrants from Africa, with more than 57,000 arriving last year.
Many are now crossing into France and transiting through Bayonne, a place where “everything is reasonable,” Stendhal wrote in the mid-19th century.
But what Mr. Etchegaray sees as his reasonable stance has put him at war with the government of President Emmanuel Macron, even as the mayor has become a case study in the front-line management of Europe’s migration crisis and its contradictions.
The mayor doesn’t necessarily want these young men, predominantly from French-speaking West African countries like Guinea, Mali and Ivory Coast, hanging around forever. He also doesn’t want them camping out on his streets of tall, old, half-timbered Basque houses nestled along slow-moving rivers.
But he wants the migrants to exist, while in his city, in a “condition of dignity,” as he put it. “I don’t think I can do less,” he said.
So Mr. Etchegaray took the young men off the streets, requisitioned an old military barracks near the train station, put camp beds in it, brought in hot meals and keeps the place heated.
The young men greet him warmly when he shows up, several times a day.
“Good man,” said one of his temporary guests, Abdul Sylla, a 29-year-old from Guinea who harbors vague hopes of studying. “Close to the people.”
Official France keeps wagging its finger at the city’s mayor.
It is “absolutely out of the question” that the state “would give the slightest aid” to the mayor’s shelter, Gilbert Payet, who until recently was Mr. Macron’s regional representative for the Interior Ministry, testily told local reporters last month.
The mayor was unfazed.
“I saw that the frontiers were closing, and as far as I’m concerned, there are some fundamental rights that can’t be trampled on,” Mr. Etchegaray said, evoking Bayonne’s heritage as a refuge for Jews fleeing the Spanish Inquisition and as the birthplace of the great Jewish jurist René Cassin, who helped draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The French state’s attitude toward the mayor illustrates Mr. Macron’s own ambiguities on the subject of migration.
On the one hand, he has exalted France’s humanitarian traditions and asked the police to treat migrants with fairness.
On the other, his government has refused admission to migrant ships, put migrant rights advocates on trial and boasted about how many foreigners have been expelled or turned back at frontiers.
The Italians have angrily accused the French of hypocrisy, and Mr. Etchegaray has used the same word.
“The prefect said, ‘No, no, no, no, no, no!’ ” recalled Maïté Etcheverry, a young volunteer who runs the shelter in Bayonne.
But the mayor merely carried on — distributing blankets; inquiring about the migrants’ well-being; and paying for the center out of the budget of the local agglomeration of towns which he runs.
“They said, ‘You’re just going to create a pull factor for even more migrants,’ ” Mr. Etchegaray said with a laugh during an interview in his office here this past week.
“They said, ‘You’re going to create another Calais,’” he said, referring to squalid encampments in northern France, since demolished, where thousands of migrants waited in mud, cold and misery, hoping to get to England.
So far, it hasn’t turned out that way.
“I don’t feel I’m doing anything contrary to the law,” Mr. Etchegaray said mildly.
“Look, I’m not some kind of radical crazy person,” he continued, noting that most migrants stay a few days then move on.
He even moved a bus stop for low-cost travel services in front of the shelter, to make it easier for migrants to leave. And he went to war with the bus company because its drivers were demanding, illegally, that the Africans produce identity papers.
“We are the only squatters in France supported by City Hall,” Ms. Etcheverry said, grinning.
“That mayor, he’s in deep against the prefect, and visibly against the interior minister,” said Ms. Etcheverry, a law student. “It’s really kind of extraordinary.”
A self-described “radical pro-Basque independence leftist,” she has found herself in political opposition to the 66-year-old center-right mayor before. Not this time.
The migrants come and go at the center all day, most often arriving in inconspicuous cars with traffickers. The local police say the seedy district around the train station in the nearby Spanish border city of Irún has become a hive of trafficking.
One recent day, a group of six young African men with backpacks hurried in single file across a plaza in Irún and down a flight of stairs.
They were bundled into a waiting car that quickly drove off. Watching from the plaza above were several spotters talking furtively into their phones. All of it happened right under the noses of a group of Spanish police officers 20 yards away who did not stir.
French and Spanish officers wait on opposite sides of a bridge crossing the river that separates Spain and France in this corner. The border is open, unless you are a migrant — in which case you might get stopped, checked and sent back.
If the migrants make it to the shelter in Bayonne, however, they have a temporary refuge.
The local police do not enter the courtyard that was converted into the shelter, where a long, low hall is staffed with volunteers and stocked with donations of food and clothing. The young men staying there play scrabble or lie quietly on camp beds, grateful that the worst seems behind them.
“I never want to see the sea again,” said Ibrahima Doumbia, a young Guinean who crossed the Mediterranean by boat. “I had the fright of my life.”
With the arrival of cold weather in the fall, he knew the growing migrant population in Bayonne could no longer stay in one of the city’s main squares, where people had been camping out.
“It was cold and raining,’’ Mr. Etchegaray said. ‘‘We couldn’t leave them there anymore. They were cold, sick and hungry.”
The mayor formed plans for the initiative quickly. “He came directly to the square,” Ms. Etcheverry recalled, adding that she remembered him saying, “I’ll be back in a half-hour.”
When he returned, he led volunteers and migrants to an underground parking lot for the municipal police — a temporary solution until something better could be found.
“He accompanied them, and showed them where the toilets were,’’ Ms. Etcheverry recounted. “He saw that they were quiet, and that we were just young people helping other young people. But we never imagined that it would end like this, in a center financed by the municipality.”
It is a mayor’s duty, Mr. Etchegaray said.
“The state just doesn’t want to know,” he added. “But me, I’ve got to know. And this was an emergency.”
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — In a story April 16 about a lawsuit filed by a man secretly recorded by police while receiving a massage, The Associated Press reported erroneously one of the government agencies being sued. The lawsuit is against the Palm Beach County State Attorney's Office, not the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office.
A corrected version of the story is below:
Man filmed getting massage at Florida spa files lawsuit
A Florida man is claiming his constitutional rights were violated when his massage at a day spa was secretly recorded during an investigation into human trafficking
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — A Florida man is claiming his constitutional rights were violated when his massage at a day spa was secretly recorded during an investigation into human trafficking.
In the federal lawsuit recently filed by a man identified as "John Doe," the man says police were "spying" on him while he was in a "state of undress" during a massage at Jupiter's Orchids of Asia Day Spa.
The man isn't among those charged with solicitation of prostitution in connection with the case. New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft has pleaded not guilty to two counts of solicitation.
The lawsuit says the man "did not engage in any sexual or illegal activity." The lawsuit asks for an unspecified amount of damages and names Jupiter police and the Palm Beach County State Attorney's Office.
HONG KONG — A Canadian man sentenced to death in China for drug smuggling intends to appeal, one of his lawyers said Wednesday, as a diplomatic rift between Canada and China deepened and information emerged about the man’s past drug convictions.
The man, Robert Lloyd Schellenberg, 36, was tried, convicted and sentenced on Monday in what one of his attorneys called a stunningly swift outcome. The hearing in Dalian, a port city in northeastern China, was a retrial ordered by an appeals court last month, after Beijing angrily denounced Canada for arresting a Chinese tech executive at the request of the United States.
Zhang Dongshuo, one of Mr. Schellenberg’s two defense attorneys, said his client was relatively calm when they met on Tuesday, despite the death sentence and the possibility that a geopolitical conflict could decide his fate. Mr. Schellenberg said during that meeting that he would appeal, Mr. Zhang said by telephone.
“His main point is that he is innocent, and he didn’t do what he’s been accused of doing,” Mr. Zhang said.
He said he had warned Mr. Schellenberg last week that the retrial might result in a harsher punishment than the 15-year sentence he originally received, and that he could even be sentenced to death. Still, Mr. Zhang said he was astonished by the swiftness of the sentencing Monday.
“This really was too fast,” Mr. Zhang said.
“Under Chinese law, death sentences should be handled very carefully,” he said. “Generally, they must be arrived at after careful consideration, assessment and discussion. For a court to announce a death sentence just an hour after the trial really is very, very rare.”
Mr. Schellenberg can formally lodge his appeal within 10 days of receiving a written copy of the court verdict. He had yet to receive one when Mr. Zhang saw him on Tuesday.
Mr. Zhang said it was too early to lay out all the potential grounds for appeal, but he said prosecutors had offered no new evidence Monday that could justify a heavier penalty.
“My view is that the facts laid out by the prosecution for the retrial were not new,” Mr. Zhang said.
“Under Chinese law, the penalty of a criminal conviction can only be increased on appeal if the prosecution produces new criminal facts,” he said. “It still fell within the scope of the original criminal facts.”
Canada opposes the death penalty and carried out its last execution in 1962. Its minister for foreign affairs, Chrystia Freeland, said on Tuesday that her ministry had already asked for clemency for Mr. Schellenberg.
She told reporters on Tuesday that Canada’s relationship with China was at “a complicated, a difficult moment,” and that she had spoken twice with the Chinese ambassador.
“As Canadians know we do not have the death penalty in Canada,” she said. “We believe it is inhumane and inappropriate.”
Ms Freeland said she had also had an “emotional” conversation over the phone with Mr. Schellenberg’s father.
“It’s important for us to remember that we’re talking about a human being — about a person,” she said.
Legally, the odds are stacked against Mr. Schellenberg. Chinese courts come under Communist Party control, and successful appeals in criminal cases are rare; outright exonerations are even rarer. But an appeal may help Mr. Schellenberg extend the process while the Canadian government seeks to secure clemency.
The fate of Mr. Schellenberg, as well as two Canadians detained in China last month, now seems inescapably tied to the tense relationship between the countries — in particular, to Canada’s handling of Meng Wanzhou, the Chinese tech executive whose arrest in Vancouver early last month ignited official fury in Beijing.
Ms. Meng, the chief financial officer of Huawei, a powerful Chinese telecommunications equipment maker, is free on bail ahead of a court battle that will decide whether the Canadian government can order her extradition to the United States. Prosecutors in New York have accused her of fraudulent bank transactions related to business with Iran that violated United States sanctions on that country.
The Chinese government has argued that Ms. Meng’s arrest was an abuse of law, an accusation denied by Canada. But numerous law experts and former diplomats suspect China of playing politics with the law itself, to put pressure on Canada.
Less than two weeks after Ms. Meng’s arrest, two Canadians — Michael Kovrig, a former diplomat, and Michael Spavor, a businessman — were arrested in China on suspicion of “endangering national security,” a vague charge that can cover crimes like espionage.
Then in late December, a court in Dalian acted with uncommon speed to hear Mr. Schellenberg’s appeal against the 15-year prison sentence he had received the previous month. Mr. Schellenberg had hoped the court would reduce his sentence or overturn the conviction, but it ordered a retrial and indicated that he might deserve a heavier sentence.
Mr. Zhang, the lawyer, said Mr. Schellenberg’s criminal record in Canada had not come up during his hearings in China. At the appeal hearing and the retrial, Mr. Schellenberg said he had been in China as a tourist and unwittingly became entangled in a drug smuggling operation.
In Canada, though, Mr. Schellenberg has a history of drug trafficking dating to 2003, when he was convicted of possession of a scheduled substance for the purpose of trafficking, according to court records.
In 2010, he was convicted of drug trafficking again and sentenced to nine months in jail. Two years later, when Mr. Schellenberg was 29, he pleaded guilty to possessing about $4,500 worth of cocaine and heroin for trafficking purposes, as well as possessing cannabis and methamphetamines.
Court records indicated that the police had found drugs in Mr. Schellenberg’s apartment, which a judge said he was using “as a distribution center,” saying he was “not at the lower rung of the dial-a-dope operations.” Mr. Schellenberg was sentenced to two years in jail, some of which he had already served while waiting for the trial.
The sentencing judge, Neill Brown of the British Columbia Supreme Court, told Mr. Schellenberg: “Your country deserves much better from you. You are in one of the best places in the whole world to live.” He urged Mr. Schellenberg to “overcome your addiction and reform your life” and told him, “I hope this is the last time you appear in court.”
Lauri Nelson-Jones, Mr. Schellenberg’s aunt, said in an earlier interview that before his arrest in China in 2014, Mr. Schellenberg had traveled around Asia, using earnings from working in the oil fields of Alberta to pay for his adventures.
After Mr. Schellenberg was sentenced to death on Monday, Global Affairs Canada — the country’s foreign service — issued a revised travel advisory for Canadians considering travel to China. That warning came after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said that “China has chosen to begin to arbitrarily apply” the death penalty.
The travel advisory recommended “a high degree of caution in China due to the risk of arbitrary enforcement of local laws.”
On Tuesday, China struck back. Its embassy in Ottawa urged Chinese citizens to “fully assess the risks of traveling to Canada,” citing the "arbitrary detention” of Ms. Meng, though it did not name her. “In the near future, exercise caution in traveling to Canada,” the notice said.
On Wednesday, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying, said that the Canadian government had played down the gravity of Mr. Schellenberg’s crime, which the court said involved attempting to smuggle nearly 500 pounds of methamphetamine to Australia. Ms. Hua also brushed aside the call for clemency.
“I don’t know if the Canadian leader has seriously heeded China’s solemn stance,” Ms. Hua said at a regular news briefing. “For the Canadian leader to use ‘arbitrary’ to describe Schellenberg’s trial in China was extremely irresponsible.”
After Tennessee’s governor granted clemency last week to Cyntoia Brown, a 30-year-old woman serving a life sentence for killing a man when she was a teenage trafficking victim, her supporters applauded the decision, calling her the face of hope for others serving long sentences for crimes they committed as children.
Then they got to work.
This week, state lawmakers and others inspired by Ms. Brown’s case are harnessing the state and national attention it drew by writing legislation that would give others like her a quicker road to a second chance.
The key proposal in their draft bill goes to the heart of the Brown case. It would make it possible for people found guilty of committing serious crimes like murder when they were under the age of 18 to be evaluated for parole if they have served at least 20 years of their sentence.
Ms. Brown had been serving a life sentence for first-degree murder, which in Tennessee meant she would have had to wait 51 years before she could appear before a parole board.
“I just thought, this is crazy that a juvenile, especially one with a mitigating circumstance, will be sentenced to 51 years before they even had a chance to get out,” said State Senator Raumesh Akbari, who is leading the effort on the bill. “I believe in second chances, particularly when we are talking about children.”
The draft also proposes that a life sentence without the possibility of parole should not be given to people who were under 18 when they committed the crime. It suggests that a parole board should consider factors related to their youth, like the role of peer pressure or the effects of trauma.
Ms. Akbari plans to introduce the bill early in the legislative session at the end of February, she said.
At least 148 inmates in Tennessee are serving life sentences without the possibility of parole for 51 years for crimes they committed as juveniles, according to figures from the state’s Department of Correction. Some were as young as 14 when they committed their offenses.
They include a woman who was sexually abused as a child who is serving a life sentence for a murder she committed at 17 and will be eligible for parole in 2022, and a man who is serving a life sentence for killing his abusive stepfather at 16 and will be eligible for parole in 2052.
Those cases were among the examples provided to legislators last year by Tennesseans for Reasonable Parole Review, an informal collective including a juvenile court judge, a juvenile court administrator, researchers, people who were incarcerated as youths, and the American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee.
“The bottom line is most of these kids who end up doing very horrific crimes or tragic crimes have all in some ways been victimized,” said Judge Sheila Calloway, the juvenile court judge, who has been pushing for reform. “When we lock them up for life, we discount their ability to rehabilitate and become better citizens.”
A previous attempt to pass legislation that would make juveniles eligible for parole after serving 30 years instead of 51 years expired in committee last year. Part of the opposition to the bill cited the murder of a family in eastern Tennessee’s Greene County in 1997 by six youths, two of whom were 14 and 17 and were tried as adults. If passed, the bill would have retroactively applied to the Greene County killers.
Dan Armstrong, the elected district attorney in the county, lobbied legislators last year when the bill for juvenile sentencing changes was being considered. He said such legislation would make a “mockery” of the judicial system, particularly in cases involving the murder of multiple people.
“I understand the focus on juvenile justice reform,” he said. “I am not necessarily opposed to the idea. But the community has lived with this for over 20 years. How come we still have to fight this battle to keep these people in jail?”
In Ms. Brown’s case, she had run away from home at 16 and lived with a pimp who raped and abused her while forcing her to become a prostitute, according to court documents. In 2004, a 43-year-old man picked her up in Nashville for sex and drove her to his home, the documents say.
At one point, Ms. Brown said, she thought he was reaching for a gun to kill her. She later shot him in his sleep and fled, taking money and guns, the documents say. In 2006, a jury found her guilty of first-degree murder and aggravated robbery.
Over the years, her case has inspired debate in Tennessee about juvenile criminal justice reform, victims’ rights, and the potential for rehabilitation for traumatized teenagers who have committed crimes.
Voices on both sides of the debate have been amplified this year. Nashville lawmakers passed a resolution backing Ms. Brown’s clemency, citing the “horrors of her childhood and the repeated sexual abuse she endured.” The detective who investigated the case wrote a letter to Gov. Bill Haslam, published by NewsChannel5, arguing that she should not be given clemency, saying her motive was robbery.
Ms. Brown’s case was elevated into the national discourse after celebrities picked it up as an example of injustice in a system that often punishes children and teenagers who are trafficked into prostitution.
Mr. Haslam, who is considering more clemency appeals before his term ends this week, bridged both sides when he announced Ms. Brown’s clemency, under which she will be released in August after serving 15 years.
He cited the “horrific crime” she committed but said that the life sentence imposed on her, with its 51 years before parole eligibility, was “too harsh.” He also noted the “extraordinary steps” she had taken to rebuild her life while in prison.
“Transformation should be accompanied by hope,” he said.
BRADENTON, Fla. — The first player drafted this decade was Bryce Harper, who is now starting a 13-year, $330 million contract with the Philadelphia Phillies. The third player drafted was Manny Machado, who is now starting a 10-year, $300 million contract with the San Diego Padres.
Tucked within that $630 million sandwich, with the second overall pick in 2010, was Jameson Taillon, a starter for the Pittsburgh Pirates whose career has been sidetracked by a torn elbow ligament, a sports hernia and testicular cancer.
“I always made sure when I was hurt that my investments were going well and they were in a good place,” Taillon, 27, said, smiling last month at the Pirates’ training complex here. “You can still believe in yourself, but when an injury happens, there’s not much you can do. You never know what’s on the horizon.”
When Taillon was drafted, he could not have known the landscape that would greet him in his first full, healthy season in the majors, which came last year. In 2010, according to Fangraphs, there were 22 pitchers who worked at least 50 innings and averaged 95.2 miles per hour on their fastball. Last season, according to Fangraphs, there were 67, including Taillon.
[A.L. Preview: How Hard Will It Be for the Red Sox to Repeat? Ask the Astros]
The supply of prospects with big-league stuff — and the savvy to go with it — has skyrocketed. This is part of the reason that Major League Baseball’s player population has continued to balloon: According to the Elias Sports Bureau, a record 1,379 players appeared in a major league game last season, the sixth year in a row with an increase.
In 2010, Elias said, there were 1,249 overall players — meaning that teams have added the equivalent of five 25-man rosters, and then some, to the playing ranks since this decade began.
“I threw 95 and I was one of the hardest throwers in all of minor-league baseball,” Taillon said. “Now, you see guys across every level that throw hard. And a lot’s written about young guys throwing weighted balls and only focusing on throwing hard, but some of these guys are polished. They’re throwing three or four pitches for strikes at 22, 23 years old.
“We’re investing so much money in player development, you’re seeing kids coming to big-league camp that aren’t intimidated.”
Standout players like Taillon — who posted a 3.20 earned run average in 32 starts last season — can marvel at the trend while still expecting to someday sign a lucrative contract. But while Harper and Machado scored big in free agency, many more veterans will open this season with much lower salaries than players of their caliber once commanded. 
That has contributed to a growing sense among players that a system that once reliably rewarded their years of toil no longer works for them. The flurry of contract extensions late in spring training only underscored the point: Take what’s in front of you, because the open market can be a cold, lonely place.
“If you look at the guys that are having to sign these nonroster deals, or guys that still don’t have jobs, far and away most of them comprise that middle class of baseball players,” said Sean Doolittle, the All-Star closer for the Washington Nationals.
“They’re not the young guys anymore, and they’re not the superstars. They’re very serviceable big leaguers, they’re past arbitration, they’re veterans, and the market for those guys is evaporating. Teams are no longer looking at that eight-year veteran who they might have to spend several million on as someone that can help their team. They’ll take the cheaper labor — the guy that has options, gives them roster flexibility, and costs a lot less.”
[N.L. Preview: A Deep Talent Pool Should Keep the Dodgers Afloat]
Players need six years of major league service to become free agents, and between two and three years to be eligible for salary arbitration. It could be that the sophistication of player development — in the United States amateur ranks, the international market and major league farm systems — is producing a deeper pool of acceptable choices for major league rosters.
“When I first started scouting in 2007, veteran scouts would still talk about high school kids getting homesick, guys that had never left their hometown, and that’s just not the case anymore,” said Mike Elias, the Baltimore Orioles’ general manager. “These guys, when they enter professional baseball, they’ve already hit with wood, they’ve been on the travel circuit, they know each other from the summers. They’re ready.”
The rise in overall players can be traced almost entirely to pitchers. Last season included only six more position players than in 2010, but 124 more pitchers — up to a record 751. Starters work fewer innings, in part, because teams have better options to replace them as they get deep into games.
Many of those options can be shuttled back and forth between the majors and the minors while making close to the minimum salary of $555,000. They may also offer a higher ceiling of production — though a lower floor — than a midlevel veteran who costs much more and cannot be sent to the minors. For many teams, the choice is easy.
“One of the things teams have realized is the value in giving that opportunity to a player that you’ve signed, scouted and developed relative to the potential marginal upgrade in someone that has four or five years of major league service,” said Ross Atkins, the Toronto Blue Jays’ general manager. “Determining where that difference is, in a more thorough way, is occurring because of manpower, really.”
That realization has transformed franchises. Since Atkins and team president Mark Shapiro took over the Blue Jays’ baseball operations in late 2015, Toronto has added significantly to its front office in an effort to better cultivate its own talent. The Blue Jays have added at least six positions for research and development in addition to creating a high-performance department that emphasizes strength and conditioning, mental health and nutrition throughout their farm system.
Long gone are the days when minor leaguers subsisted on peanut butter and jelly sandwiches with threadbare coaching staffs to guide them. Teams employ more coaches than ever in the minors and the majors, and arm them with increasingly sophisticated tools to develop players.
Jeff Luhnow, the general manager of the Houston Astros, noted that the first aim of the analytics revolution — think of the “Moneyball”-era Oakland Athletics, in the early 2000s — was using statistics to better predict future performance. Now, he said, teams emphasize technology to better identify tools in amateurs and attack the deficiencies of their own prospects.
“There’s much more actionable feedback today than there ever has been, so you don’t let a player go down a path for very long if it’s not a path that’s going to work for him, long term, in the big leagues,” Luhnow said.
He mentioned three companies many teams now use — Rapsodo, TrackMan and Blast Motion — that give coaches instant feedback on players’ movements. Objective, easy-to-visualize data appeals to players from a tech-savvy generation.
“Before, you relied on the scout or the coach to say, ‘Well, you need to make this adjustment, and just trust me on it because I’ve seen it before, and what you’re doing is not going to work at the next level, so you need to change something,’” Luhnow said. “Now, you can actually show them video, show their numbers, and say, ‘This is what you’re doing, and I’ll show you why that doesn’t work at the next level and show you what does work, and let’s work on changing you, or modifying what you’re doing.’
“That, by definition, will lead to a higher success rate in development. Let’s say 5 percent of players get developed into big leaguers and it goes up to 7 percent. That’s a massive difference, because we haven’t increased our capacity, but what we’ve done is increase our throughput. So the success rate is good for players, but it probably results in an abundance of an oversupply. Obviously, it doesn’t affect a Harper or Machado, but there are just more options.”
Other teams have noticed the Astros’ success. Two of Luhnow’s assistants have become general managers elsewhere — Baltimore’s Elias and the Milwaukee Brewers’ David Stearns — and several former Astros coaches have received promotions with other teams, including Alex Cora, who managed the Boston Red Sox to the World Series title last fall.
The same thing has happened to the Los Angeles Dodgers, who have won two National League pennants in a row with a knack for progressive methods. Their president of baseball operations, Andrew Friedman, said he got 39 requests last fall from other teams wanting to interview Dodgers personnel.
“The past two off-seasons, I’ve spent the first four to six weeks like an H.R. director,” Friedman said.
When the Dodgers lost their hitting coach, Turner Ward, to the Cincinnati Reds, they replaced him with Robert Van Scoyoc, 32, a private hitting instructor who never played professionally but who has helped otherwise ordinary hitters, like J.D. Martinez and Chris Taylor, develop into stars. Unlocking hitting secrets, Friedman said, remains a largely untapped field.
“Since I’ve been sitting in advance meetings and been closer to that prep, nothing has changed on the offensive side in 12, 13 years,” he said, “whereas on the run-prevention side, everything has changed.”
While runs per game have fluctuated in this decade, strikeouts — the ultimate way to fool or overpower a hitter — have increased every season since 2006. This month, the league and the union finally gave into the trend and legislated a change.
With no end in sight to the procession of polished, power arms, they agreed to expand the size of the active roster next season to 26 — virtually assuring that the record of 1,379 players in a season will not last long.
WASHINGTON — Rod J. Rosenstein, a lifelong Republican with a tough-on-crime record, was eager to put his stamp on the Justice Department when he was sworn in as the deputy attorney general in the early months of the Trump administration.
Instead, he was abruptly thrust into a political maelstrom after President Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director only two weeks later. Mr. Rosenstein appointed a special counsel to investigate Russia’s election interference and spent the next year and a half defending that inquiry from both Mr. Trump’s unwavering attacks and attempted political intrusion by his congressional allies.
Now Mr. Rosenstein plans to step down as the United States’ No. 2 law enforcement official after Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, is confirmed, three administration officials said on Wednesday. Senators could vote to confirm him as early as next month.
Mr. Barr will represent a new chapter for the Justice Department and for the Russia investigation, which is nearing its final stages and is expected to be finished in the coming weeks or months, according to senior law enforcement officials. They cautioned that like any investigation, it could be prolonged if the special counsel overseeing the inquiry, Robert S. Mueller III, were to cover uncover new evidence central to his mandate.
Mr. Barr, who met with senators on Capitol Hill on Wednesday ahead of his confirmation hearing next week, holds a dim view of aspects of the investigation but affirmed that he would allow it to conclude, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the new chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
“He says Bob Mueller is a great guy — ethical, professional,” Mr. Graham said of Mr. Barr in a brief interview. “He believes that he is not on a witch hunt, trusts him to be fair to the president and the country, and has no reason to believe he is not going to do that.”
The timing of Mr. Rosenstein’s anticipated departure was unconnected to the Mueller investigation, a Trump administration official said. Mr. Rosenstein privately told Mr. Barr weeks ago that a term of roughly two years seemed like the right length, according to Mr. Graham.
After Jeff Sessions’s time as attorney general was done, Mr. Rosenstein was supportive of the decision to replace him with Mr. Barr, according to a person who has discussed the issue with Mr. Rosenstein. He and Mr. Barr worked together at the Justice Department during the George Bush administration.
While most deputy attorneys general labor in obscurity, Mr. Rosenstein became a target of criticism from the president and his allies while liberals cheered his efforts to shield the Russia investigation from Mr. Trump’s vitriol. He was given standing ovations at many of his speeches last year and was feted on late-night television. Strangers would ask him for his autograph and for photographs with him at airports and in other public places.
But his record on the Russia investigation was more complicated. In the tumultuous days after the president fired Mr. Comey in May 2017, Mr. Rosenstein was shaken and angry, concerned that the White House had used him to justify the firing, associates have said.
In meetings with senior law enforcement officials, he suggested secretly taping his conversations with Mr. Trump and invoking the 25th Amendment to remove the president from office, according to people familiar with the discussions and a memo written by Andrew McCabe, then the deputy F.B.I. director.
Mr. Rosenstein ultimately sought to stem the chaos by appointing Mr. Mueller as special counsel, but he consulted almost no one, according to three department officials who were not authorized to discuss the appointment.
Later, his work to protect the Mueller investigation from Mr. Trump’s congressional allies, whom Democrats accused of trying to subvert sensitive investigations, also drew criticism. To mollify the lawmakers, Mr. Rosenstein made scores of documents related to those inquiries available, moves that ran counter to law enforcement’s reticence to share information about investigations.
Senior law enforcement officials noted that under Mr. Rosenstein, the department won one of its most critical battles with conservative lawmakers who had sought the declassification of a wiretap application at the heart of the Russia inquiry. Despite congressional Republicans’ urging, the White House declined to release the document.
“Rod was in a truly unusual position and was largely a steady hand,” said Megan L. Brown, a lawyer at the firm Wiley Rein who worked at the Justice Department with Mr. Rosenstein under President George W. Bush.
A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Law School, Mr. Rosenstein had worked at the Justice Department for nearly 30 years before becoming deputy attorney general. Early on, he was a trial lawyer in Washington and later was the United States attorney for Maryland under Mr. Bush and President Barack Obama.
He ascended to his post eager to help Mr. Sessions crack down on violent crime and drug trafficking and became known for the long hours he kept while running the day-to-day work of the Justice Department, sometimes sending emails at 3 a.m., according to two lawyers who worked closely with him.
Inside the department, law enforcement officials said Mr. Rosenstein helped usher in the sort of tough-on-crime policies that he supported during his 12 years as the top federal prosecutor in Maryland. He also paid special attention to the nation’s federal prosecutors, some of whom said they felt neglected during past administrations.
Mr. Rosenstein has been at the forefront of Trump administration efforts to crack down on Chinese spying while also tightening rules and cracking down on department employees who provide information to the news media to inform the public.
He had an uneven relationship with Mr. Trump almost from the start. Though the president blamed Mr. Sessions, who had recused himself from the Russia investigation, for the appointment of a special counsel, Mr. Trump also attacked Mr. Rosenstein repeatedly, calling him “conflicted” in one instance because Mr. Rosenstein had recommended Mr. Comey’s firing but installed Mr. Mueller.
The relationship was tested in September after The New York Times revealed Mr. Rosenstein’s questioning in May 2017 of Mr. Trump’s fitness to be president and offers to secretly record conversations with him. Mr. Rosenstein has denied that account.
Rattled and unsure how the president would react, Mr. Rosenstein considered quitting and even had aides draft a news release about his resignation. But senior White House advisers urged him to stay on, and, over time, he and the president, who meet or speak by telephone frequently, found common ground.
It almost certainly helps that he is no longer the top law enforcement official overseeing the Mueller investigation. After the holidays last month, Mr. Rosenstein and his family visited Mr. Trump at the White House to meet the president and have a photograph taken with him.
His uneasy standing with Mr. Trump is not lost on him. At a conference last month where the president was to appear later, Mr. Rosenstein joked: “You let the president know that his favorite deputy attorney general was here.”
“A Very Curious Girl” is a very farcical account of sexual revenge.
A one-time staple of women’s film festivals that never quite became a classic, this first feature by the Argentine-French director Nelly Kaplan, originally released in the United States in 1970, is back in an excellent 2K digital restoration at the Quad Cinema.
The movie, released in France as “La Fiancée du Pirate” (“The Pirate’s Fiancée”) is set in the fictional village of Tellier (an allusion to the Guy de Maupassant tale of prostitutes on holiday, adapted in Max Ophul’s “Le Plaisir”). Marie (Bernadette Lafont) is a grim-looking servant who, among other indignities, is sexual prey for the men in the village as well as for her female boss (Claire Maurier). After her mother — reviled as a Gypsy — is killed by a hit-and-run driver, Marie decides to charge the Tellier locals for the sexual favors hitherto taken from her.
Self-liberated, her look changes. Having applied a cosmetic made from crushed berries and staged a pagan wake for her mother, Marie becomes magically irresistible. In a recent interview with the film journalist Joan Dupont, Kaplan described her protagonist as “a witch who doesn’t let herself be burned.” Indeed, Marie is a Circe who needn’t change her admirers into pigs: They already are.
Marie confidently baffles and humiliates the townspeople at every turn, fleecing some, rejecting others and blackmailing them all. Her seductions and transactions are accompanied by a jaunty song “Moi, je me balance” (“Me, I’m Swinging”) written and sung by the celebrated cabaret performer Barbara (Monique Serf). “The bitch has cast a spell on them,” one clod complains of the smitten townsfolk. It’s a line that Kaplan might have heard in life. Born in Buenos Aires in 1931, she moved to Paris at age 22 where she was welcomed into André Breton’s circle of aging surrealists, took up with the venerable filmmaker Abel Gance, and directed a well-received documentary portrait of Pablo Picasso. “A Very Curious Girl” was her declaration of independence.
Lafont, a new wave stalwart who made her screen debut in a short by Francois Truffaut, imbues her character with the implacability of a Brecht protagonist. In his generally favorable review, Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote that she “plays Marie with a kind of sexless, intellectual wrath, which makes all the fuss about her legendary sensuality even funnier than it might be if she was a steamy teenager.” (According to Kaplan, Lafont “really didn’t get it, but she was great anyway.”)
“A Very Curious Girl” is relentlessly anticlerical as well as anti-bourgeois. Yet as provocatively cartoonish as it is, the film feels closer to the Off Off Broadway spectacles staged by the Playhouse of the Ridiculous in the late 1960s.
While very much of its time, “A Very Curious Girl” remains amazingly fresh after 50 years. Marie’s triumph is not just a victory for her sex and class but, given the explicitly xenophobic nature of the smug patriarchal order that she upends, a win for outsiders and outcasts of all varieties.
Many writers have earned prison time as well as prizes; the Nobel laureates Liu Xiaobo and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn come immediately to mind. But there seems to be no precedent for what happened in Australia last week, when an author named Behrouz Boochani won the country’s most valuable literary prize, the Victorian Prize for Literature, but was unable to collect his stipend in person. The same nation praising him is also keeping him in indefinite detention on a small island in the Pacific.
Mr. Boochani is a journalist of Kurdish heritage from Iran who fled the country in 2012 when the pro-Kurdish newspaper he worked for was raided by the Iranian government. He escaped to Indonesia and then, in 2013, attempted to seek asylum in Australia via boat. For the past five years, along with 700 or so other inmates, he has lived on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea. His is a prison sentence without an end date: Australia refuses to accept asylees attempting arrival via boat, even if they attain refugee status, and Iran rejects forcible repatriation of these individuals.
Mr. Boochani has continued his journalism in the Australian immigration detention system, detailing the circumstances of its inmates in publications like The Guardian and The Saturday Paper. He also shot an award-winning documentary, “Chauka, Please Tell Us the Time,” using a smuggled mobile phone. 
But he has found that the malicious vagaries of the offshore prisons, like the one that has become his home, have defeated standard reporting. “The language of journalism has never been strong enough or critical enough to describe the suffering on Manus island and Nauru,” he told me this week via WhatsApp from Manus. “The language used by journalists cannot expose this complicated system. I have always tried to create a new language by using different forms of critical literary language.”
That new language is on full display in his prizewinning book, “No Friend but the Mountains” — a work that encompasses, among other things, a novel, a poem, a testimony, a psychoanalytic tract and a political pamphlet. He wrote the book entirely via WhatsApp in messages sent to his translator and friend based in Sydney and Cairo, Omid Tofighian.
The book is so unusual that Mr. Tofighian says it is a “non-genre,” and the author and translator have agreed on the umbrella term “horrific surrealism” to cover it. The award, which Mr. Tofighian accepted on Mr. Boochani’s behalf, is a piece of that horrific surrealism. “The Victorian state government is giving him this award, and the prize money,” Mr. Tofighian told me, “and at the same time, the federal government won’t allow him into the country and is basically torturing him. Keeping him in prison indefinitely. The paradoxes are almost incomprehensible.”
Mr. Boochani says he has a “paradoxical feeling” about the prize. “I really don’t know what to say,” he texted me. “I certainly did not write this book just to win an award. My main aim has always been for the people in Australia and around the world to understand deeply how this system has tortured innocent people on Manus and Nauru in a systematic way for almost six years. I hope this award will bring more attention to our situation and create change and end this barbaric policy.”
Mr. Tofighian believes the implications are deeper than policy. “What Behrouz wants to challenge with his book — and I think he’s achieving that — is the ideology that drives all perceptions of refugees on all sides of politics, that these people are needy, passive and only looking for a helping hand,” he said. “He thinks ‘the problem I have faced in all of my work and all of my resistance is people only see me as a refugee. Not as a thinker, not as a knowledge producer, not as a creative.’ And I think the book and the reward have really disrupted that.”
The policies they are challenging are not easily shifted. Among the Australian political class, there is a bipartisan, almost talismanic belief that governmental authority comes from a “strong” maritime border. The prime minister, Scott Morrison, invokes his time as minister for immigration as his chief qualification for office. This display is quite literal: On his desk is a model of a refugee boat with the legend “I Stopped These” written across it. Because members of the center-left Australian Labor Party support these measures as well — their moral qualms may keep them up at night, but in the morning they do the same thing — Australian writers, artists and intellectuals have formed some of the most vociferous opposition to the nation’s architecture of offshore immigration detention.
They have variously invoked compassion, shame, exposure and a liberal humanist tradition centered on the concept of storytelling. Storytelling promotes empathy, our country’s most celebrated artists insist. It shines a light. It transmits truth.
Except after more than 20 years of mandatory detention, on- and offshore, and the speeches, plays, books, performances, artworks and protests arrayed against it, the situation has not budged. Art and artists can hardly be blamed for this state of affairs, but it is difficult to square crowd-pleasing writers’ festival speeches about how much writing matters with how little it has achieved so far.
“Over the almost six years we have been exiled here, I have seen many artists, writers and journalists make work based around attempts to grow empathy among non-refugees in Australia,” Mr. Boochani said. “Nothing changes because in the end the complexities of the structures of domination and oppression remain unchallenged.” Empathy trips over an “unacknowledged layer of power.”
His book is a kind of counterproposal to this method, a form that is liberated in itself. What he calls “curiosity for a new life” — building relationships with the local Manusian people; cultivating his freedom of mind even as his body is captive — has helped him survive. Something similar has happened to the other refugees. “They have changed so much — they have transfigured into different beings,“ he said in an interview included in the book. “This has occurred for everyone. The process has been unsettling and vexed, and some have become totally cynical and pessimistic of the world and life. But in any case, all of them are unique in their own special way; they have become distinctly creative, they have unprecedented creative capacities. And in my view, this is incredible, it is phenomenal to witness.”
“On its own, the award will do nothing, absolutely nothing,” Mr. Tofighian said. “But it has opened a crack. There is a collective movement, and we can use that crack to tear things apart. I think something can happen. Hope remains with this kind of event.” Perhaps. So far the Australian government has acknowledged Mr. Boochani’s win with only an embarrassed silence.
The United States military began flying humanitarian aid to a Colombian city close to the Venezuelan border on Saturday in an effort to turbocharge a relief plan that has become a cornerstone of the quest to oust President Nicolás Maduro.
Military personnel used C-17 cargo planes to transport thousands of nutritional supplements and hygiene kits from a base near Miami to Cúcuta, the main staging ground for hundreds of millions of dollars in humanitarian aid that Venezuelan opposition leaders and their international backers hope to get across the border.
Mr. Maduro, who has accused the United States of weaponizing aid, has blocked the main roads that connect the two nations near Cúcuta and put his armed forces on high alert to counter what he called “conspiracies and provocations.”
As the standoff over Venezuela’s future has dragged on for weeks, Mr. Maduro and his foes are vying for the support of the commanders of the armed forces, which so far have remained loyal to the country’s authoritarian leader.
A chief reason is the enormous amount of money the country’s more than 2,000 generals stand to lose in a post-Maduro era, Adm. Craig S. Faller, the head of the United States Southern Command, said in an interview.
“There are a lot of generals and a lot of leaders on Maduro’s illicit payroll through illicit drug trafficking, money laundering and any number of businesses in the oil industry,” Admiral Faller said. “Maduro has bought their loyalty.”
The United States military has concluded that more than 1,000 Cuban military and intelligence advisers, working with the Russian government, have been instrumental in keeping the top echelons of the Venezuelan military loyal to Mr. Maduro, Admiral Faller added.
While rank-and-file members of the Venezuelan military have endured the hunger and privations that much of the population faces amid a worsening humanitarian crisis, the country’s large corps of generals and other high-ranking officers has so far refused to back a plan to oust Mr. Maduro and help opposition leaders convene a new election.
Venezuela’s military has more than twice as many generals and top-ranking officers as the United States military, which is exponentially larger. Cuba and Russia have condemned the plan to push Mr. Maduro out of power as an American-orchestrated coup.
The standoff over Venezuela’s future began roughly a month ago when the new leader of the opposition, Juan Guaidó, announced a road map to remove Mr. Maduro from power. It has raised the specter of a military confrontation that could directly draw the United States into its first conflict in the region in decades.
The Trump administration has not ruled out the use of military force in Venezuela as it has staunchly backed Mr. Guaidó’s claim that the Constitution gives him the right to serve as interim leader until a new vote can be held.
Mr. Maduro, meanwhile, has spent much of his time during the past few weeks being photographed and filmed surrounded by his troops, aiming to convey that he is backed by a loyal, well-trained and lethal force.
As the impasse drags on, officials at Southcom, the Miami-based United States regional command that handles operations in Latin America, has been drawing up plans for a series of potential missions in Venezuela, U.S. officials say.
They include potentially evacuating American diplomats in Caracas, bolstering security at the embassy and turbocharging the plan to deliver humanitarian aid across the country, which Mr. Maduro has so far impeded.
The State Department last month ordered most of its employees in Venezuela and their relatives to return home. It kept a small team in place that may have to be pulled out quickly if the security situation suddenly deteriorates.
“We are prepared to protect U.S. lives and protect the diplomatic facility in Venezuela,” Admiral Faller said in a series of interviews during a trip to Brazil in which he discussed the crisis with senior military officials. “There are a range of options that are on the table.”
Once it became clear to opposition leaders that the military was siding with Mr. Maduro after Mr. Guaidó proclaimed himself the country’s rightful leader on Jan. 23, the opposition mounted a plan to get tens of millions of dollars worth of food and medicine into the country.
But Mr. Maduro and his allies barricaded the road along a major border crossing with Colombia to prevent trucks from entering their country.
Freddy Bernal, a Maduro loyalist who was dispatched to the border recently, acknowledged that the Venezuelan military would be outmatched if the United States were to task its military with delivering aid. But he warned that such a decision had the potential to ignite an armed conflict that would destabilize the region for years.
“Of course they can invade us, they are used to killing millions in Iraq, Libya, Syria and elsewhere,” Mr. Bernal said. “They’ve spent seven years helping Syria already, and look how the country is.”
Mr. Bernal said the Venezuelan government realizes it would lose an armed conflict with the United States. “But are we ready to die defending the fatherland? Yes, we are ready to do it.”
The Trump administration has hinted at the possibility of using force to tip the scales in favor of the opposition. The national security adviser, John R. Bolton, was recently photographed with a notepad in which he had scribbled “5,000 troops to Colombia.” When asked about the phrase, the White House said “all options are on the table.”
Admiral Faller said it would be premature to discuss whether American troops could be tasked with delivering aid on Venezuelan soil, a mission that would entail significant risks in a nation awash in weapons.
But he said the American military has become experienced in getting aid to people under trying circumstances, citing recent natural disasters in Asia as an example.
Rebecca Chavez, who served as the deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Western Hemisphere during the Obama administration, said it was “very likely” that the American military would be drawn into the crisis in Venezuela as the power struggle between Mr. Maduro and Mr. Guaidó escalates.
But, she argued, “any unilateral military intervention in Venezuela would be a huge mistake.” If the American military does end up delivering aid, or takes part in a peacekeeping mission, Ms. Chavez said, it should be done as part of a coalition.
The recent election of conservative leaders in key Latin American nations, including Brazil, Colombia and Chile, makes that prospect more plausible than in past years. But so far, officials in Colombia and Brazil have signaled deep reservations about military missions in Venezuela.
The prospect of an influx of humanitarian aid has raised hopes among Venezuelans who have struggled to put food on the table.
Matilde Sandoval, a 57-year-old merchant from Ureña near the Colombian border, attended a recent rally pressing for the delivery of aid. She held a sign that said “Welcome to my country” in English.
Ms. Sandoval said she dreamed of watching American Marines pour into her country to break the impasse.
“We Venezuelans need help,” she said. We are fed up.”
COLUMBIA, S.C. — Federal officials this week oversaw the test at a South Carolina prison of a cellphone signal jamming technology that some hope will help combat the threat posed by inmates with smuggled cellphones, officials told The Associated Press.
The test took place over the course of five days in a housing unit at Broad River Correctional Institution, a maximum-security prison in Columbia, South Carolina, according to Department of Justice officials. Assistant Attorney General Beth Williams told AP it's the first time federal officials have collaborated with officials at a state prison for such a test.
Officials did not release the results of the test, which will be included in a later report to be done by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
The test marks progress on the state-level quest to stamp out contraband cellphone use, which officials have long said represents the top security threat within their institutions. Micro-jamming technology was tested last year at a federal prison - where officials said they were able to shut down phone signals inside a prison cell, while devices about 20 feet (6 meters) away worked normally - but a decades-old law says state or local agencies don't have the authority to jam the public airwaves.
South Carolina Corrections Director Bryan Stirling, who for years has spoken out on the dangers posed by the devices smuggled into institutions by the thousands, told AP he was recently deputized as a special deputy U.S. Marshal, thus giving him the federal status needed to conduct the jamming test.
"I'm very encouraged by what we witnessed at Broad River this week," Stirling told AP on Friday, adding that he's optimistic about federal legislation, introduced last month, that would give state prison officials the ability to jam signals.
In 2008, South Carolina officials received a waiver from the Federal Communications Commission to conduct a jamming test at a different maximum-security prison, in a demonstration for media and other officials but not in a prison dorm.
Stirling and other state prison directors use other measures - like perimeter netting, monitoring by drone, and scanners - to detect cellphones but advocate a jamming technology that would shut down all signals as the best possible defense.
In 2017, Stirling testified at a FCC hearing in Washington alongside Robert Johnson, a former South Carolina corrections officer nearly killed in 2010 in a hit orchestrated by an inmate using an illegal phone.
Also that year, an inmate escaped from a maximum-security prison in South Carolina, thanks in part to a smuggled cellphone. In 2018, seven inmates at a maximum-security South Carolina prison were killed in what officials have said was a gang fight over territory and contraband including cellphones.
The FCC has shown willingness to work on the issue, holding a field hearing in South Carolina and hosting meetings with members of Congress, prisons officials and stakeholders from the wireless industry.
On Friday, Williams said officials are working to ensure prisons have technological options to help them combat the smuggled devices.
"It is very difficult to make sure that no contraband gets in," Williams told AP. "We try as hard as we can, but it's really hard to stop everything."
___
EL ALTO, Bolivia — Thousands of indigenous people are marking Palm Sunday with an annual agricultural fair in the suburbs of one of Bolivia's largest cities.
The so-called Palm Sunday Fair, which began as a way to recreate the livestock markets of biblical times, is currently dominated by all sorts of informal trade. But the sale and purchase of animals still thrives.
Armando Risalazu said he brought his Hampshire sheep from neighboring Peru so that buyers could crossbreed them and improve the performance of common Creole sheep.
"I can't complain, sales are good," Risalazu says, adding that his cheapest sheep goes for $100; his most expensive for up to $210.
In an improvised street corral, loud bleats drown out the sound of a merchant's bargain as the smell of wet wool fills the air.
Each sheep bears a nametag on its ear — Jorge, Pilar, Paul, Lola, Pepe, Rosa and Lucho — and many appear to huddle together for protection.
Although such animals are most coveted, small pigs, ducks, rabbits, and chickens are also sold alongside farming tools, bridles and wooden plows. Clothing, fruit, vegetables, pirated CDs and satellite dishes are up for sale, too.
But only one stall appears to offer fronds for Palm Sunday.
On a recent day, Julia Ramos fanned the flames of her makeshift stove so that the fried fish she was selling didn't get cold. Others rode a giant Ferris wheel, pedaled around the fairgrounds in carts, and walked by scales offering to weigh people.
Hugo Dávalos, deputy mayor of the San Roque neighborhood, says he wants the fair to continue growing to attract business.
"Trade brings progress to the neighborhoods," he says.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
When Edgar Galvan got divorced in El Paso, Tex., in 2003, he did what many others in a similar position might have done: look for a good time. To do so, Mr. Galvan rented a house across the Mexican border in El Paso’s sister city, Ciudad Juárez.
But as he began frequenting the city’s raucous night clubs, Mr. Galvan — then only 26 — made poor choices about who he spent his time with. He became “party friends,” he said, with Antonio Marrufo, a bloodthirsty killer known as Jaguar, who would soon be tasked by the Sinaloa drug cartel with “cleansing” Juárez of its rivals. Within four years of meeting Jaguar, Mr. Galvan began working for him, receiving shipments of Mexican cocaine and marijuana at safe houses in El Paso and moving guns in the opposite direction.
On Monday, Mr. Galvan, now 41, spoke about his brief stint in the smuggling trade at the drug trial of the longtime cartel leader, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the kingpin known as El Chapo. So far, most of the witnesses at the federal trial in Brooklyn have been Mr. Guzmán’s lieutenants, suppliers or distributors — people who emerged from his organization’s managerial class. A luckless figure with a quiet voice and an unassuming manner, Mr. Galvan was the first witness who could be described as a minor worker bee.
In an afternoon on the witness stand, Mr. Galvan told the jurors that he had never even met Mr. Guzmán and had only heard his voice one time — when he was in the room as Mr. Marrufo talked to the crime lord on the phone. At best, Mr. Galvan was a guy who knew a guy who knew the guy in charge.
In that way, Mr. Galvan, who is serving a 24-year prison term on drug and weapons charges, was emblematic of the hundreds of minions who prosecutors say helped Mr. Guzmán turn the cartel into a multibillion-dollar operation that shipped huge loads of heroin, cocaine and marijuana into the United States on trains, planes, trucks, fishing boats and submarines.
But in a trial where witnesses have routinely talked about illicit drug shipments that could weigh 200,000 kilograms or more, Mr. Galvan’s bulk weight shipped was paltry: In the three years before he was arrested, he claimed he moved only about 250 kilos of cocaine.
It appeared from his testimony that he was brought to court largely to corroborate earlier descriptions by law enforcement officers of a seizure of 40 AK-47 rifles that took place in El Paso in 2010. Mr. Galvan said on Monday that the cartel needed the rifles to fight a bloody war at the time against a breakaway group called La Linea, which was founded by Mr. Guzmán’s ally-turned-rival, Vicente Carrillo Fuentes.
At first, Mr. Galvan said he was leery of working for Mr. Marrufo — a frighteningly violent man. He told the jurors how one day his employer took him to a house in Ciudad Juárez that had a room with a white-tiled floor that sloped toward a drain.
“That’s where he killed people,” Mr. Galvan said.
But Mr. Galvan took the job of smuggling guns from Texas to Mexico — just as he had smuggled drugs the other way — because it was not easy to defy Mr. Marrufo.
“Jaguar is not the kind of person who asks you questions,” he said. “He gives orders.”
Though Mr. Guzmán’s empire mostly concerned itself with narcotics, American officials have long maintained that it also did a brisk trade in illegal guns, including military weapons like rocket-propelled grenade launchers and .50-caliber rifles. Last week, Vicente Zambada Niebla, the son of Mr. Guzmán’s partner and the cartel’s heir apparent, testified that 99 percent of the guns he purchased came from the United States.
Mr. Galvan said he successfully moved four or five shipments of American weapons from El Paso to Juárez before misfortune struck on Jan. 13, 2010. On that day, the El Paso police raided one of his stash houses after trailing a suspicious Volkswagen Jetta.
Before Christmas, prosecutors wheeled an evidence cart filled with the 40 seized rifles into the courtroom, delighting some jurors and terrifying others. But at the time of the raid, Mr. Galvan had his own problems: When Mr. Marrufo learned of the raid, he said, he was “really pissed.”
“That was the last time I ever spoke to Jaguar,” Mr. Galvan said.
CHICAGO — Jose Quintana struck out 11 in seven innings of four-hit ball and the Chicago Cubs blanked the Pittsburgh Pirates 2-0 on Thursday night.
Daniel Descalso and Victor Caratini each had two hits and an RBI in a game that was delayed 69 minutes by rain before the eighth.
Quintana (1-1) bounced back after being roughed up for eight runs and eight hits in three innings against Milwaukee in his first start of the season last Friday. It was the longest outing by a Chicago starter this season.
Steve Cishek pitched the eighth and Pedro Strop got three outs for his first save. The Cubs took two of three in their first home series after opening with a 2-7 road trip.
Pirates starter Joe Musgrove (1-1) allowed two unearned runs and four hits in 6 1/3 innings.
Because of severe storms predicted to move into the area late Thursday night, the Cubs pushed up the start of the game a half hour. The rain began as Chicago rallied for both runs in the seventh.
With one out, Jason Heyward lifted a pop fly to shallow left field and the strong right-to-left wind blew the ball toward the line. Because of a defensive shift, no Pittsburgh fielder had a clear shot at it. Three players converged and the ball hit off the glove of third baseman Jung Ho Kang in fair territory and fell in.
The play originally was called a double, but was quickly changed to an error on shortstop Erik Gonzalez.
Descalso followed with a single to drive in Heyward for the game's first run. Descalso went to second on the throw to the plate and scored when the next batter, Caratini, doubled to right-center.
By that point, a steady rain had begun. Shortly after the seventh inning ended, a bolt of lightning flashed in the distance beyond center field and the umpires stopped play.
EARLY EXIT
Chicago manager Joe Maddon was ejected in the bottom of the fifth by plate umpire Mike Estabrook for arguing balls and strikes.
With runners on first and second and one out, Caratini took a low breaking ball on a 3-1 pitch for a strike. After hearing complaints from the Cubs dugout, Estabrook took a few steps down the third base line and held up a hand, essentially saying that was enough.
Maddon walked out and slowly made his way to the home plate area. He was ejected almost immediately after speaking to Estabrook.
ROSTER MOVES
Pirates: INF Kevin Kramer was recalled from Triple-A Indianapolis to take the roster spot of SS Kevin Newman, who was placed on the 10-day injured list with a lacerated finger on his right hand.
Cubs: RHP Jen-Ho Tseng was released. The 24-year-old from Taiwan had been designated for assignment Saturday.
UP NEXT
Pirates: RHP Trevor Williams (1-0, 2.25 ERA) takes the mound Friday night in the opener of a three-game series at Washington. LHP Patrick Corbin (0-0, 3.75) starts for the Nationals.
Cubs: LHP Cole Hamels (1-0, 5.73 ERA) pitches the opener of a three-game home series against the Angles on Friday afternoon. LHP Tyler Skaggs (1-1, 2.45) goes for Los Angeles.
___
LOS ANGELES — Walt Disney Co unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix Inc. 
The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the "Star Wars" galaxy, "Toy Story" creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 (53 pounds) per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disney's libraries will include: 
* Classic Disney animated movies such as "101 Dalmations" and "Bambi" 
* The entire Pixar catalog including "A Bug's Life" and "Cars" 
* "Captain Marvel" and three other Marvel films 
* The first and second "Star Wars" trilogies
* Live-action movies such as the "Pirates of the Caribbean" series, "Mary Poppins" and "The Sound of Music."
* More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as "Hannah Montana"
Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service. According to the company, that will include: 
STAR WARS
A new season of animated series "Star Wars: The Clone Wars"
A live-action "Star Wars" series called "The Mandalorian," developed by Jon Favreau
A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" 
MARVEL
A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston
A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch
ANIMATION
"Monsters at Work," a series inspired by Pixar hit "Monsters Inc." Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
MOVIES
Remakes of Disney classics such as "Lady and the Tramp" and "Sword in the Stone" 
"Noelle," a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader
"Togo," starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog 
TELEVISION
A new "High School Musical" series
"Diary of a Female President," a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States
NON-FICTION
"Marvel's 616," a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world
"Be Our Chef," a food competition show in which families compete and the winner's dish will be served at Walt Disney World
"Rogue Trip," a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit
 (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler)
Rafi Eitan, the canny Israeli spymaster who commanded the Nazi-hunting team that captured Adolf Eichmann in Argentina and many years later was unmasked as the handler of Jonathan Jay Pollard, the American Navy intelligence analyst who pleaded guilty to passing on more than 1,000 secret documents to the Israelis, died on Saturday in Tel Aviv. He was 92.
The death was confirmed by the Ichilov Medical Center, where Mr. Eitan had been hospitalized, Israeli news organizations said. In a statement, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Mr. Eitan “among the heroes of the intelligence services of the State of Israel.”
Mr. Eitan, a bespectacled man with thinning hair, was a legend in his country because so many feats of espionage and international intrigue seemed to bear his fingerprints. He exploited loopholes in national security to achieve masterful strokes of espionage, counterterrorism or simple revenge.
He played important roles in the surgical strike on Iraq’s Osirak nuclear reactor in 1981 and the assassinations of the Palestinian commandos who carried out the massacre of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972. He was also suspected of being involved in the late-1960s disappearance of at least 100 pounds of highly enriched uranium from a nuclear fuel plant in the Pittsburgh area; many believed that the uranium was diverted to Israel to help its atomic bomb program.
“In principle, when there is a war on terror you conduct it without principles,” Mr. Eitan said in an interview with the Israeli newspaper Ha’aretz in 2010. “You simply fight it.”
No single deed garnered as much attention as the kidnapping of Eichmann, the SS official who drew up plans for the Final Solution, the mass deportation of Jews to camps for extermination.
Mossad, the Israeli counterpart of the Central Intelligence Agency, had learned from a German prosecutor that a young German woman in Buenos Aires had befriended a young man there named Nicolas Eichmann, who lived with his family in a suburb of the city. His father, it was determined, was using the alias Ricardo Klement.
Through surveillance, Mr. Eitan and his team established that Klement, who appeared to be Eichmann, returned home from work by bus each day. On May 11, 1960, Mr. Eitan and his team, pretending to be a group of men fixing a stalled car, snatched Eichmann after he got off the bus.
“I grabbed him by the neck with such force that I could see his eyes bulge,” Mr. Eitan recalled. “A little tighter and I would have choked him to death.”
They drove three miles to a safe house, where Eichmann was kept for seven days, during which he admitted that he was indeed Adolf Eichmann.
“We did not want to show Eichmann how nervous we all were,” Mr. Eitan told an interviewer. “That would have given him hope, and hope makes a desperate person dangerous. I needed him to be as helpless as my own people were when he had sent them in trainloads to the death camps.”
The team dressed Eichmann in the outfit of an El Al airline crew member, forced him to drink a bottle of whiskey to make him wobbly, and escorted him onto a departing airplane as if he were an under-the-weather steward. An actual El Al crew member remained behind in Buenos Aires so that there would be no discrepancy in the manifest. The team was also aware of the Argentine whereabouts of the demonic Nazi medical experimenter Josef Mengele, but Mr. Eitan had blocked any attempt to seize him because it could have jeopardized the capture of Eichmann.
The kidnapping was condemned in Argentina as a violation of that country’s sovereignty and of international law, but it was met with deep satisfaction and vindication by tens of thousands of Holocaust survivors. Eichmann faced a trial in Jerusalem that drew renewed attention to Germany’s systematic genocide. He was found guilty of crimes against humanity and was executed by hanging in 1962.
In his book “Gideon’s Spies: The Secret History of the Mossad” (1995), the British author and investigative journalist Gordon Thomas wrote that Mr. Eitan spoke to Eichmann in the execution chamber.
“Eichmann looked at me and said, ‘Your time will come to follow me, Jew,’ ” Mr. Thomas quoted Mr. Eitan as recalling, “and I replied, ‘But not today, Adolf, not today.’ ”
Rafael Eitan was born on Nov. 23, 1926, in the British Mandate of Palestine to Zionists who had immigrated from Russia three years earlier and lived in a small settlement near Tel Aviv. Not yet a teenager, Rafi joined the Haganah, the forerunner of the Israeli Army, to defend the settlement against Arab attacks and was later recruited into its more elite branch, the Palmach.
With Jews pressing the British for an autonomous homeland, his most dazzling venture was to crawl through sewers to blow up a British radar installation on Mount Carmel. It earned him the sobriquet “Rafi the Smelly,” to distinguish him from another Rafael Eitan, who went on to become chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces. Mr. Eitan also played an important role in smuggling Jewish refugees from Nazism into Palestine.
Mr. Eitan was twice wounded in the 1948 war for independence. After telling his superiors that it was difficult for him to run in the field, they assigned him to an intelligence unit. His spying career had begun, though he took time to earn a degree from the London School of Economics.
Over the next few decades he served as operations chief at Shin Bet, Israel’s equivalent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and as Mossad’s deputy operations chief. In 1965, posing as an Israeli government chemist, he visited a nuclear fuel plant in Apollo, Pa., outside Pittsburgh. It was later discovered that a large quantity of enriched uranium had vanished. Though the case has never been solved, some American analysts concluded that it was more than a coincidence that Mr. Eitan’s visit had occurred around the time of the disappearance.
In 1985, Mr. Pollard, an intelligence analyst for the Navy assigned to monitor classified materials on global terrorist activities, was arrested on charges of spying for Israel and turning over thousands of documents to it. He confessed and was sentenced to life imprisonment. After serving 30 years, Mr. Pollard, now 64, was granted parole and released from prison in 2015.
The Pollard affair strained the close ties between the United States and Israel and raised the specter of divided loyalties among some American Jews — though today, after revelations in 2013 of the United States spying on allies through the National Security Agency, the double-dealing seems routine.
Israeli officials at first tried to depict the Pollard case as a rogue operation by Mossad. But Shimon Peres, Israel’s prime minister at the time, publicly apologized and allowed State Department officials to question Mr. Eitan, who had been the adviser on terrorism to a previous prime minister, Menachem Begin, and had overseen Mr. Pollard’s spying. Mr. Eitan later told journalists that he had acted with “permission and authority.”
According to Mr. Thomas, the British author, Mr. Eitan was also for a time a secret adviser on counterterrorism to MI6, the British foreign intelligence agency, and had helped Mossad agents track an Irish Republican Army bomb squad in Gibraltar that was then killed by British special forces.
In the wake of the Pollard affair, Mr. Eitan lost his executive intelligence post but was made head of the state-owned company Israel Chemicals, a job that ended in 1993 when he was 67.
He and his wife, Miriam, were said to have had three children and several grandchildren, but there was no immediate information on his survivors.
Mr. Eitan’s role in the operation to capture Eichmann was dramatized in the 2018 movie “Operation Finale,” in which he was played by Nick Kroll.
In supposed retirement, Mr. Eitan undertook large agricultural and construction projects in Cuba and, like other Israeli spymasters, fashioned something of a political career. He represented the Gil Pensioners Party in the 2006 elections for the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. It won seven seats, and he briefly served as minister for pensioners. But Mr. Eitan lost his seat in 2009.
His one other avocation was sculpture, and Mr. Eitan produced more than 100 pieces over more than 30 years. None, however, have been as savored for their cleverness as his espionage operations.
There are more than 48,000 people being held in immigrant detention in more than 200 facilities in the United States. More than two-thirds of them, according to the National Immigrant Justice Center, are confined by private companies, working on contracts with the federal government. Those numbers have ballooned in the last two years under the Trump administration, drawing new attention to the terrible conditions detainees are living in.
One feature of privately run centers — the Voluntary Work Program — is the subject of six separate lawsuits, which say that privately run immigrant detention centers are coercing detainees into working for a dollar a day and punishing those who don’t. The lawsuits demand, among other things, that the practice stop and that detained workers be paid minimum wage.
Congress should not wait for these lawsuits to be decided. Democrats have won the House, so even if they can’t stop the president’s anti-immigrant push, they can push to raise the obsolete and exploitative $1-a-day wage. And, just as they have rejected Mr. Trump’s request for $5.7 billion for the border wall, they should reject the request for $2.8 billion to expand detentions to 52,000 beds.
Prison labor is nearly as old as the American prison system itself, and it is protected by the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery and indentured servitude except as punishment for a crime. This exception means that prisons can require their prisoners to work, even without compensation. 
But immigrant detention is civil confinement, not criminal. People held in these facilities are not charged with any crime; they are being detained while awaiting asylum or deportation hearings. Under Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Voluntary Work Program, however,  immigrant detention centers need not pay workers more than one dollar a day, a rate set by Congress in 1950 and codified in the 1978 Appropriations Act. It has never been increased or adjusted for inflation.
Detainees say that the Voluntary Work Program is not really voluntary. If they attempt to take a day off or refuse to work, staff members punish them by withholding essential items, threatening to move them to more dangerous housing units or locking them in their cells. Wilhen Hill Barrientos, a Guatemalan asylum seeker and a plaintiff in the lawsuit against CoreCivic’s Stewart Detention Center in Georgia, said that he had to either work for a few cents an hour or go without basic things like soap, which he could get only through the commissary.
According to Mr. Barrientos’s lawsuit, one night a guard awakened him for the 2 a.m. shift in the kitchen rather than his scheduled 10 a.m. shift. When he refused, the guard threatened to move him to a violence-plagued dormitory, so Mr. Barrientos acquiesced.
Martha Gonzalez, from Mexico, was detained in three different CoreCivic prisons in Texas from May 2016 to August 2017 as she awaited a T-1 visa, which is granted to victims of human trafficking. She worked in the kitchen and sorted clothing. When she once tried to take a day off, she told me, the prison staff then punished her by refusing to give her basic hygiene supplies such as sanitary pads and toothpaste. 
CoreCivic did not respond to Ms. Gonzalez’s allegation but said that its work programs are “completely voluntary” and that “detainees are subject to no disciplinary action whatsoever if they choose not to participate in the work program.”
A representative for GEO Group called the lawsuits’ allegations baseless, saying that “this is a strictly voluntary program” and that GEO Group provides hygiene products free of charge upon request. 
Private corporations hold less than 10 percent of the nation’s prison population, but more than 70 percent of people in immigration detention. The government pays them a fixed daily price per person, so they have an economic incentive to run their facilities as cheaply as possible, relying on detainees to cook meals, mop hallways, scrub toilets, mow lawns and even cut hair.
In 2016, CoreCivic’s revenue from Stewart (where Mr. Barrientos and other detainees worked in the kitchen) was about $38 million; in 2017, contracts with ICE comprised 25 percent of its $1.76 billion in revenue. For GEO Group, ICE contracts comprised 19 percent of its $2.26 billion revenue in 2017. 
At the same time, the detention centers provide the barest minimum to detainees, while charging them exorbitant rates for necessities. In immigrant detention, a phone call can cost as much as $12.75 for 15 minutes. Four ounces of toothpaste sells for $11.
These two corporations have become the giants of the private prison industry. Between 2016 and 2018, CoreCivic spent $2.8 million in lobbying and over $700,000 on campaign contributions while GEO Group spent $4.4 million in lobbying and $2.5 million on campaign contributions. Each company also donated $250,000 to Mr. Trump’s inauguration.
They blame the 1978 Appropriations Act for the low wages. As GEO Group puts it, “The wage rates associated with this federal government program are stipulated under long-established guidelines set by the United States Congress.” 
That is true. If Congress instead forced these companies to pay the federal minimum wage, their profit margins would drop dramatically.
But the dollar-a-day rule has stalwart defenders in Congress. In response to a class-action lawsuit in which formerly detained immigrants said they were forced to work, 18 Republican congressmen sent a letter on March 7, 2018, to the attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, the head of ICE and the secretary of the Department of Labor, exhorting those agencies to help GEO Group defend itself. “Unless your agencies act to intervene in these lawsuits, immigration enforcement efforts will be thwarted, and the end result will be millions of dollars of unnecessary loss to the federal government in terms of additional expenses for immigration detention,” they said. In other words, they worried that if the private prisons were forced to pay reasonable wages, the companies would pass on those costs to the federal government.
The lawsuits are not pushing to end the Voluntary Work Program altogether. They understand that it allows people who are in detention to buy things they need and keep in touch with their families by phone, which becomes even more urgent as the number of families torn apart by detention increases. Instead, the lawsuits are pushing for an end to exploitation and a fair wage for their work.
Yes, paying detainees a minimum wage would make these facilities much more expensive to operate. But if privately run detention centers rely on a business model based on forced labor, perhaps they should not exist at all.
HONG KONG — Officials in Hong Kong said on Friday that they had intercepted a shipment of nine tons of scales from pangolins, the largest seizure the city has ever made of products from one of the most frequently trafficked mammals in the world. A thousand elephant tusks were in the same shipment, officials said.
The scales and tusks were seized on Jan. 16, said the customs authorities, who displayed the contraband for reporters. They were found hidden under slabs of frozen meat on a cargo ship that had stopped in Hong Kong on its way to Vietnam from Nigeria, said officials, who estimated the shipment’s value at nearly $8 million.
The pangolin is an anteater-like creature covered in large scales. There are lucrative black markets for it in China and Vietnam, where its scales are pulverized for use in traditional Chinese medicine and its meat is served in restaurants as a delicacy. Hong Kong officials estimated that the intercepted scales had come from nearly 14,000 pangolins.
The International Union for Conservation of Nature estimated in 2016 that a million pangolins had been poached in the preceding decade. All eight pangolin species are protected under international trafficking laws and two are critically endangered. 
“The pangolin runs the risk of becoming extinct before most people have even heard of them,” Prince William said in an anti-poaching video in 2014.
When confronted by predators, the pangolin curls into a ball. Hunters are said to use machetes to kill them.
Officials said the 39-year-old owner of a Hong Kong trading company and his 29-year-old employee had been arrested in connection with the seizure. Under Hong Kong law, smuggling illegal wildlife products is punishable by up to ten years in prison and fines of up to $1.3 million. 
“Customs have done a great job,” said Alex Hofford, a wildlife campaigner for WildAid. “However, we want the Hong Kong government to take a step further. At the moment, they’re just catching the mules, the people who collect the containers — not the people at the top of the pyramid.” He urged the authorities to let investigators follow large consignments to their destinations and track the smugglers’ finances. 
Hong Kong has long been a port of entry for illegal wildlife products, including elephant tusks and rhino horns. Lawmakers voted last year to ban all ivory sales by 2021, bowing to pressure from environmental activists.
Last year, Hong Kong confiscated almost twice as many pangolin scales, by volume, as it had in 2017. 
The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trump’s border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: “The Wall will get built one way or the other!” he tweeted on Saturday.
The Senate’s minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump won’t get his way: “Democrats are against the wall.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall “immoral.”
Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that “Democrats are committed to border security.” She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ “evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border.” James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a “smart wall,” including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.
It’s also bad politics. 
Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more “security” and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants’ rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.
There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.
And when it comes to drugs — a favorite justification of Mr. Trump’s for his wall — evidence shows that more “border security” does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.
Then why, if there isn’t truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more “border security”? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the “immigration” debate “has shaped its politics, defining what count as ‘problems’” and, as a result, “constrains the solutions needed to address that problem.” When the “problem” is defined as “illegal immigration,” it becomes about “the illegal act of crossing the border without papers,” and so “the logical response to the ‘wave’ of ‘illegal immigration’ becomes ‘border security.’”
Since Bill Clinton’s presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. “Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence,” Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.
Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now they’re doing it again: House Democrats’ proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didn’t include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for “border security technology.”
That’s not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. It’s also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.
[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]
Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and “better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws,” while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.
Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated — and that’s a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the right’s paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.
So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.
Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. That’s a good start.
The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual — and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win — and a more noble victory.
Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. There’s no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.
In February, the Journal of the British Tarantula Society published a paper describing a new species of tarantula, which was discovered in a national park in Sarawak, Malaysia. While the male of the species was an unremarkable brown, the female had eye-catching, electric blue legs. 
New spiders are discovered all the time, and the paper likely would have gone largely unnoticed — were it not for an article in Science magazine that appeared soon afterward. 
The article claimed that the tarantula researchers had received their specimens secondhand from private collectors in Poland and Britain, who had poached them in Malaysia.
Neither Ray Gabriel nor Danniella Sherwood, the authors of the study, responded to email requests for comment. But Peter Kirk, chairman of the British Tarantula Society and editor of the society’s journal, said the collectors had shown the scientists an import permit from Poland, and they “had no reason to think due process wasn’t followed.”
“The paper absolutely will not be retracted, because it’s a completely legitimate published paper,” he said.
The incident has reignited a decades-old debate among scientists and hobbyists alike about research ethics, specimen collection and “biopiracy” — the use of natural resources without obtaining permission from local communities or sharing any benefits with them.
“The majority of responses I’ve seen are people saying, ‘Yes, we need to stop this,’ but there’s also been a fair amount of people basically trying to justify the poaching and smuggling of these tarantulas,” said Ernest Cooper, a conservation consultant in British Columbia. 
“It’s this very strange, slightly colonial attitude of, ‘We know better than developing countries, so their laws don’t matter.’”
Illegal wildlife trade is dominated by headlines about criminal cartels trafficking in ivory, rhino horn and pangolin scales. But scientists can also be complicit in illegal trade by poaching specimens themselves or by working with those who do. 
This type of wildlife crime occurs on a much smaller scale, but experts in a variety of fields believe it is a significant issue.
“It’s a problem globally, and it happens a lot,” said Sérgio Henriques, chairman of the spider and scorpion group at the International Union for Conservation of Nature. “I know for a fact that researchers linked to academia have purchased or collected specimens in a nonlegal way.”
For Mr. Henriques and others, this sort of collection raises deep ethical concerns. “We’re the scientists, the ones who are supposed to know better and who should be leading by example,” he said. “If we can’t follow the rules, why are we demanding that others do?”
The problem is likely to intensify, some conservationists believe. “Scientists do collect illegally, and normally this is not a huge problem, because scientists who study cacti, for example, are a small community,” said Pablo Guerrero, a botanist at the University of Concepción in Chile. 
“But every year we have more and more scientists working around the globe, and every year species are becoming more and more endangered.”
Other experts argue that scientific misconduct of this sort barely registers among the tremendous threats facing wildlife today. 
“The fact is that people make a big thing out of this tarantula or whatever else it is instead of making a case out of the need to protect where this animal lives, which no one does,” said Heiko Bleher, an independent freshwater fish expert who has researched and collected specimens in 218 countries.
No one knows how prevalent illegal collecting and use of poached specimens is among scientists, not only because of the covert nature of this trade, but also because it can be difficult to define who counts as a scientist and what counts as breaking the law.
Expert-level hobbyists often publish in the scientific literature, for example. But because they are not employed by a university or research institute, they are not subject to strict codes of conduct and may be more prone to cut corners, Mr. Cooper said. 
In their paper, Mr. Gabriel and Ms. Sherwood said they were affiliated with the Oxford University Museum of Natural History. But Paul Smith, director of the museum, said that neither are employees: Mr. Gabriel is an honorary associate, and Ms. Sherwood was a volunteer.
“The research was carried out independently and is not connected with the museum in any way,” Dr. Smith said. The paper would have failed to pass the museum’s ethics review, which requires authors to provide proof of legality of their specimens, he added.
The ethics surrounding scientific acquisitions can be hazy. Still, some cases are clearly criminal. 
In 2005, for example, a curator of the Charles University Botanical Garden in Prague was convicted in South Africa of collecting over 3,000 protected plants, cuttings and seeds in the Western Cape, according to case records. 
In 1999 Earl Thomas Schultz, the former curator of herpetology at the San Diego Zoo, pleaded guilty to fraud and theft after being caught trafficking in imperiled reptiles. 
“Sometimes it seemed like I specialized in targeting scientists who felt they were above the wildlife conservation laws,” said Ken McCloud, a retired Fish and Wildlife Service special agent who investigated the latter case.
In other instances, though, “there are extensive gray areas, and it’s as much a matter of ethics as it is of legality,” said Peter Paul van Dijk, a conservation biologist at Global Wildlife Conservation, a nonprofit group in Austin, Tex.
For example, many museum specimens — especially ones collected decades ago — have murky origins. “There’s still an idea that the ends justify the means in terms of describing some of these specimens,” said Lisa Buckley, a paleontologist at the Peace Region Paleontology Research Center in British Columbia. “That’s an attitude that really needs to die a flaming death.”
Other scientists have no such compunction. “We all have different ethical standards, and mine are rock bottom,” said David Martill, a paleontologist at the University of Portsmouth in Britain.
In 2015, Dr. Martill made headlines after stumbling across a 113 million-year-old Brazilian fossil in a German museum and realizing it constituted the world’s first known four-legged snake. 
Shortly after the news broke, Brazilian authorities began an investigation, citing laws enacted in 1942 forbidding the export of all fossils from the country. Dr. Martill stands by his decision to publish. 
“This is a really interesting, fascinating fossil, and I think the world should know about it,” he said. But living animals are another matter altogether: “There are organisms that are so rare and threatened that sometimes radical protection measures are needed.” 
Those protections differ from country to country, and scientists often get bogged down in confusing bureaucracy and lengthy waits. Some countries go so far as to forbid export entirely, especially of newly discovered species. 
“Brazil has imposed regulations that are simply insane,” Mr. Bleher said. “They require you to deposit your materials wherever they tell you, so you have specimens that have been sitting for years in institutions in Brazil and no one is working on them.”
Researchers have long complained that Brazil’s regulations — originally set up to ensure the country receives adequate recognition and compensation for pharmaceutical discoveries — impede science.
While some researchers simply give up, others travel on tourist visas and undertake collections without a permit. “Most field-working entomologists have some experience with this,” said Petr Svacha, an entomologist at the Academy of Sciences in the Czech Republic. “Believe me, it is frustrating to do useful work while hiding like a criminal.”
In 2008, Dr. Svacha and a friend spent a month in prison in India after being accused of collecting insects without a permit in Singalila National Park. More than 1,200 scientists, including many from India, protested their arrest, arguing that it was a draconian application of the law. 
In the end, Dr. Svacha paid a fine and his friend, who was sentenced to three years in prison, fled the country before his appeal.
Wildlife laws are generally designed with vertebrates in mind, but unlike tigers and elephants, most insects are composed of huge populations that will not be affected by even heavy collection, Dr. Svacha said. 
“When applied to insects, prohibitive conservation rules designed to protect individual animals become nonsensical and do not help anything,” he said. “Under that circumstance, I will do everything possible to circumvent these rules, and I do not feel guilty.”
Dr. Svacha added that, like most entomologists he knows, he also readily works with specimens that he obtains from hobbyists and commercial sellers. Whether or not these specimens were collected legally is not something he asks about, he said, “because it is absolutely unimportant.”
[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]
This is the posture of researchers in other fields as well, who study fossils smuggled out of China or reptiles trafficked out of Indonesia. The ethics of working with such specimens can quickly become blurred. 
As Dr. van Dijk put it, “If all you need is a little blood sample and you go to a friendly hobbyist down the road and take a few drops of blood from a captive animal, would you really go through due diligence of making sure that animal was properly collected?”
In the future, Mr. Kirk said, the Journal of the British Tarantula Society will require authors to provide a copy of their permits if their manuscript deals with specimens from another country, as many other publications do. 
The society will also prohibit the sale of the new blue tarantula at its annual exhibition, he said. (The species is already being advertised online in Europe and the United States for as much as $450 each.)
Mr. Henriques would like to see the creation of a website managed by a trustworthy global organization, on which each country outlines its legislation and application process for specimen collection and export. 
The same site could serve as a repository for previously issued permits, he said, allowing researchers, museums, governments and journals to verify any given permit or specimen.
“I personally think it’s good that the blue tarantula case got the attention that it did, because it ignited interest in this topic,” Mr. Henriques said. “We need to try to keep the conversation going so we can use this as a chance to find solutions.”
Chicago Cubs catcher Victor Caratini is expected to be out for at least a month after he was placed on the injured list Friday with a fractured bone in his left hand.
Caratini had two of the Cubs' five hits Thursday night in a 2-0 defeat to the Pittsburgh Pirates but came away with the injury after a swing during that game. He will have surgery Monday to repair a fractured hamate bone and he could be out for up to six weeks.
The Cubs recalled catcher Taylor Davis from Triple-A Iowa prior to Friday's series opener against the Los Angeles Angels. Davis has just 13 games of major league experience with the Cubs over the past two seasons, getting five hits over 18 at-bats.
Caratini, 25, was batting .571 with three doubles and a home run over six games this season. He played a career high 76 games for the Cubs last season, batting .232 with two home runs and 21 RBIs.
--Field Level Media
spo - Unemployed closer Craig Kimbrel's asking price may have fallen.
The free agent, who pitched for the World Series champion Boston Red Sox last year, originally was seeking a deal in the vicinity of six years for $100 million, The Athletic reported in December.
But on Sunday, The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal reported that Kimbrel could be willing to take less. Rosenthal tweeted that "Kimbrel continues to seek a deal he believes to be fair" and cited the deals signed by relievers Wade Davis (three years, $52 million) and Zack Britton (three years, $39 million) as benchmarks for Kimbrel.
Kimbrel, who turns 31 in May, was 5-1 with a 2.74 ERA and 42 saves last season. Four times in his nine-year career he has led the league in saves and has 333 for his career. The seven-time All-Star has finished in the top 10 in Cy Young Award balloting five times. He has a career 31-19 record and 1.91 ERA.
--After missing a weekend series at Chicago against the Cubs, Los Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout is expected to be with the team Monday at Texas for the start of a three-game series.
Trout's availability for Monday's game versus the Rangers still is not known, but his most recent examination for a right groin strain was positive. According to mlb.com, ultrasound images revealed that Trout's injury is progressing in a positive direction.
The two-time MVP was injured on the bases in Tuesday's victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. He did not play in Wednesday's series finale against Milwaukee and was absent for the series at Wrigley Field (Sunday's game was postponed because of weather).
--Boston Red Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi exited Sunday's game against the Baltimore Orioles in the fourth inning after fouling a pitch off the top of his right foot the inning prior.
Benintendi got on top of a 93 mph fastball and knocked it just under the shin guard on his right leg, howling in pain and hitting the ground immediately. Despite a noticeable limp, Benintendi initially remained in the contest.
He continued his at-bat and managed to leg out a double on a flare down the left field line. He was stranded at second after Mookie Betts flew out to center to end the inning. Blake Swihart took over for Benintendi in left field between innings.
--The Seattle Mariners placed left-hander Wade LeBlanc on the 10-day injured list with a strained right oblique.
The Mariners recalled right-hander Erik Swanson from Triple-A Tacoma in a corresponding move.
LeBlanc, 34, left Friday's start against Houston with two outs in the fifth inning. He is 2-0 with a 4.50 ERA in three starts this season.
--Pittsburgh Pirates starter Chris Archer said he has dropped his appeal of his five-game suspension, but with the way the schedule falls, he shouldn't miss his turn in the rotation.
Archer was among three people suspended for their participation in a brawl between the Pirates and Cincinnati Reds on April 7. MLB issued suspensions for Archer, Reds manager David Bell and outfielder Yasiel Puig on Tuesday.
Archer began serving his suspension Sunday. The right-hander started Saturday's game against the Washington Nationals, and because the Pirates have two days off next week, he isn't scheduled to pitch until next Sunday at home against San Francisco.
--Detroit Tigers left-hander Matt Moore will undergo surgery to repair a torn meniscus in his right knee, the team revealed.
Moore is slated to undergo the procedure Wednesday and told reporters he hopes to return in four to six weeks. Moore initially injured the knee during a start against the Kansas City Royals on April 6. He departed that contest in the third inning.
He said he has experienced two setbacks since suffering the injury.
--The Milwaukee Brewers added catching depth, acquiring David Freitas from the Seattle Mariners in exchange for minor league right-hander Sal Biasi.
Freitas, who appeared in one game with the Mariners this season, has 43 games of major league experience, batting .214 with one home run and eight RBIs. He was assigned to Triple-A San Antonio.
Freitas, 30, will take the 40-man roster spot left vacant when the Brewers transferred right-hander Corey Knebel (elbow) to the 60-day injured list.
--Field Level Media
MONTERREY, Mexico — There were fireworks this time, too, after Derek Dietrich homered.
Fortunately for Dietrich and the Cincinnati Reds, it was all in good fun.
Dietrich hit a tiebreaking homer off Adam Wainwright in the seventh inning and added a two-run triple as the Reds won their fourth in a row, beating the St. Louis Cardinals 5-2 Saturday night.
The start of the two-game series marked the first time either team had played in the regular season in Mexico. A raucous crowd of 16,886 fans gathered at Estadio de Beisbol de Monterrey and turned the game into a fiesta that lasted for more than three hours and ended with fireworks.
"Monterrey has done a great job with the stadium and the facilities. We were very impressed because it was a first-class and great field, the fans and the atmosphere, everything," Dietrich said. "Also, I think that the fireworks at the end of the game were pretty cool, it's something that I will remember forever."
Last weekend, Dietrich touched off a different kind of eruption.
After standing in the batter's box to admire a long home run at Pittsburgh, he came up the next time and the first pitch from Pirates starter Chris Archer whizzed behind his waist. The benches soon emptied, leading to five ejections and three suspensions.
Wainwright hit an RBI single in the second off Tanner Roark for a 1-0 lead. Jesse Winker's one-out homer in the sixth was the Reds' first hit off Wainwright (1-1).
Dietrich connected to lead off the seventh, finishing Wainwright. Dietrich tripled to cap a three-run eighth that made it 5-1.
"Everyone on the team was very excited to play here and the crowd was awesome, the field was very cool also," Winker said. "On the ride to the stadium, I was looking around the city, trying to absorb the experience as much as possible, and I can say that Mexico is a very fun place. I'm glad we got to come here."
Cincinnati had lost eight straight, including four shutouts, before sweeping Miami ahead of this trip.
"We came off a stretch when we lost a lot of games in a row, but we bounced back against the Marlins and now we did it against a good team. It was not easy and hopefully we can get that momentum going forward," Reds manager David Bell said.
Kolten Wong hit a leadoff home run against Zach Duke to begin the Cardinals ninth. Raisel Iglesias relieved and, after St. Louis put two runners on base, retired Paul Goldschmidt and Paul DeJong for his second save.
Jared Hughes (1-0) got two outs for the win.
Mexico is hosting major league games for the second year in a row. Last year, the Los Angeles Dodgers combined for a no-hitter against San Diego at Monterrey. Next month, the Los Angeles Angels and Houston Astros will play two games in this ballpark.
BACK HOME
Cardinals reliever Giovanny Gallegos, who earned his first career win last Thursday, is the only Mexican-born player in this series. Gallegos is from Ciudad Obregon, in the northern state of Sonora, but he lived in Monterrey over a decade ago while he was at the Liga Mexicana de Beisbol academy in El Carmen, Nuevo Leon.
"I'm so happy to be back here now playing for a big league team, I was here 11 years ago and I never thought that I was going to be coming back pitching for a team in the majors," Gallegos said.
"I feel proud to represent Mexico abroad and to show all the Mexican kids that dreams can come true and that nothing is impossible," he said.
Gallegos had several family members at the stadium but did not get a chance to play.
DEJONG GOES COLD
DeJong arrived in Mexico riding a career-best 12-game hitting streak, the longest active streak in the National League, but went 0 for 5.
UP NEXT
Cardinals: RHP Miles Mikolas (1-1, 6.19 ERA) pitched five innings, allowing five hits and three runs against the Dodgers to get his first win of the season.
Reds: RHP Anthony DeSclafani gets the ball on Sunday afternoon. DeSclafani (0-1, 6.75 ERA) allowed six earned runs against in a loss to the Pirates in his last outing.
___
NEW YORK — "Smallville" actress Allison Mack on Monday pleaded guilty to blackmailing two women as part of an alleged New York sex cult that prosecutors called a racketeering operation that carried out sex trafficking and other crimes.
Mack, 36, entered her plea to racketeering and conspiracy charges before U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, admitting that she coerced the two unnamed women into performing services by threatening to release damaging information about them.
Fighting back tears, Mack said she had joined the organization, led by self-described spiritual guide Keith Raniere, a decade ago to find purpose in life.
"Through it all, I believed that Keith Raniere's intentions were to help people," she said. "I was wrong. I now realize that I and others engaged in criminal conduct."
There was no mention at the plea hearing of any agreement by Mack to cooperate with prosecutors against Raniere, who is expected to go on trial later this month. Mack's lawyers declined to provide any further details about her plea deal.
Raniere, 58, was arrested on sex trafficking charges in March 2018, and is being held without bail. Mack was arrested the following month.
Prosecutors accused Raniere of running a cult-like secret society within his organization, Nxivm (pronounced "Nexium"), in which women were branded with his initials, put on extremely restrictive diets and forced to have sex with him.
Last month, prosecutors unsealed new charges accusing Raniere of sexually exploiting a minor and coercing her to produce child pornography.
Raniere has pleaded not guilty. Marc Agnifilo, one of his lawyers, declined to comment on the case after Monday's hearing. Agnifilo has previously said that his client's sexual encounters with women in the organization were consensual, and denied the child pornography charges.
Nxivm on its website calls itself "a community guided by humanitarian principles that seek to empower people and answer important questions about what it means to be human." The website now carries a message saying that all "enrollment, curriculum and events" are canceled "until further notice," adding that "we continue to believe in the value and importance of our work."
Two other people charged in the case, former Nxivm president Nancy Salzman and her daughter Lauren Salzman, previously pleaded guilty.
Also charged alongside Raniere are Seagram liquor heiress Clare Bronfman and Nxivm member Kathy Russell, who have pleaded not guilty.
"Smallville," a television series that ran from 2001 to 2011, featured a young Clark Kent before he became famous as Superman. Mack played Chloe Sullivan, a close friend of the future Superman whose romantic feelings were not reciprocated.
 (Reporting by Brendan Pierson in New York; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Leslie Adler)
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Fourteen years ago, the police in Colombia stormed a makeshift veterinary clinic at a farm in Medellín, seizing 17 bags of liquid heroin and rescuing a pack of purebred puppies who were in the process of being stuffed with the drug.
On Thursday, in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Andres Lopez Elorez, a Colombian national with veterinary training, was sentenced to six years in prison for conspiracy to import the heroin, stitched into the puppies’ stomachs.
The case was another reminder of the lengths drug traffickers will go to in order to transport the illicit product across borders.
Although this is not the first case of a trafficker using puppies as drug mules, it seemed fitting that two floors above the courtroom where Mr. Elorez was sentenced, jurors were deliberating the fate of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug kingpin known as El Chapo, who has gained notoriety for his novel smuggling techniques. Testimony from Mr. Guzman’s trial has detailed his systems of transporting drugs on sea vessels, in the bedding of trucks and even hidden in cans of chili peppers.
In fact, one of the prosecutors in Mr. Guzmán’s case, Andrea Goldbarg, headed downstairs on Thursday to listen in on the puppy sentencing.
A prosecutor in the Colombian case, Alicia N. Washington, told the court on Thursday that when law enforcement officials found the puppies — some already filled with heroin and others being prepared for surgery — they tried to remove the balloons from “the dogs that were still alive.”
Three puppies later died, however, after contracting viruses from the emergency operations. (Several of the dogs have since found new homes, including one Rottweiler who is now a drug detection dog for the Colombian national police, and a beagle who was adopted by a Colombian police officer, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration.)
Urging the judge to hold Mr. Elorez responsible for “betraying his responsibility as a veterinarian,” Ms. Washington suggested as many as nine years in prison, adding, “Without his skill set these Colombian traffickers couldn’t have done what they did.”
Mr. Elorez, now 39, who pleaded guilty to the conspiracy in September, approached the judge with his hands crossed behind his back. Speaking through an interpreter, he called the five-month span when he rented the farm, raised the puppies and conducted the surgeries a “very difficult time for me.” He added, “They were formative years for me personally and professionally.”
Court proceedings and filings show that Mr. Elorez did not work alone. Mitchell Dinnerstein, his court-appointed attorney, mentioned an unnamed veterinarian “of some influence” in Colombia, who was never been arrested in connection to the conspiracy. That veterinarian, who had ties to drug traffickers, had mentored Mr. Elorez, securing him an internship and stipend and eventually orchestrating the puppy project, Mr. Dinnerstein said.
Mr. Elorez said the mentor did “everything he could professionally to help me out, and also taught me that there was a door I should never open, but unfortunately I did open it.”
Then, on Jan. 1, 2005, the Colombian police stormed the farm in Medellín, seizing the 17 bags of liquid heroin — 10 of which were already implanted in the puppies — totaling almost three kilograms.
Mr. Elorez fled to Spain, using Venezuelan documents and settling in Galicia, where he eventually married and raised two children. He eluded authorities until 2015, assisting veterinarians and undergoing a “total transformation,” according to his attorney.
“I know I cannot justify my actions,” Mr. Elorez told the judge. “Because I have made mistakes.”
Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
For the team of national security correspondents who sit along the west side of The New York Times’s Washington bureau, there is almost nothing more revealing — or, in the Trump era, more politically charged — than an annual exercise mandated by Congress called the “Worldwide Threat Assessment.” It is the one moment each year that the chiefs of America’s biggest intelligence agencies — the Central Intelligence Agency, the F.B.I. and the National Security Agency, along with lesser-known but giant agencies that defend American troops or run spy satellites — are required to explain what worries them, and to rank the threats facing the country.
In a public, declassified way, they have to summarize their judgments about whether the North Koreans will ever give up their arsenal, whether the Iranians are violating a nuclear deal that the United States has already renounced, and how much progress is being made defeating terror groups like the Islamic State.
That task has never been a straightforward one — especially when an intelligence finding complicates, or undermines, a president’s desired outcomes. President Barack Obama’s director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., usually opened his testimony by complaining that he had to deliver those assessments in public — naturally secretive, the intelligence leaders prefer to talk to Congress behind closed doors.
But in the Trump era, the task is infinitely more complicated: The intelligence chiefs know that every word they utter will be judged in the Oval Office by whether the independent, fact-based judgments of the roughly $80 billion intelligence enterprise promote or undercut Mr. Trump’s instincts and policies.
So as my colleague Julian Barnes and I prepared for this year’s testimony, I remembered the comment that the head of one of the agencies made to me during a holiday party in December. “My objective for the year,” this official said, half-jokingly, “is to stay out of the president’s Twitter feed.”
No such luck. A day after the testimony at the very end of January — and only after he had read the coverage that contrasted with his own descriptions of those problems — the president erupted. “The Intelligence people seem to be extremely passive and naive when it comes to the dangers of Iran,” he tweeted, reacting to their conclusion that the mullahs in Iran are, for now, abiding by the 2015 agreement and are not producing new nuclear fuel for weapons.
He did not care for the assessment that Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader Mr. Trump will meet in Vietnam this month, will not give up all of his nuclear weapons, no matter what the president wants to believe. “Perhaps Intelligence should go back to school,” Mr. Trump tweeted. Then he summoned several of the chiefs to the White House and got them to agree, at least publicly, that the problem was not their conclusions, it was us — the biased journalists covering the open, public testimony. The testimony, he wrote, was “mischaracterized by the media,” and he assured everyone “we are very much in agreement on Iran, ISIS, North Korea, etc.”
They are not, obviously — just read the public document. But the moment crystallized one of the biggest challenges in covering national security issues in Washington these days: There’s what the government believes and what the president wants to believe. And when you compare the two, you are charged with taking sides, or inciting disagreements, in an effort to tear down Mr. Trump or weaken America in front of its adversaries.
In the days running up to Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address, more than one member of the administration accused me, my colleagues and The Times of deliberately highlighting those differences in an effort to provoke just the kind of reaction Mr. Trump had the morning after the testimony. Why don’t you just write it straight, one asked? Just say what the intelligence chiefs said, and not try to compare it to the president’s statements?
The answer is simple: We’re not stenographers. Our readers expect us to use decades of experience, as foreign correspondents around the world and as reporters who have delved into unclassified and classified data for years, to provide context into what an intelligence report on some of the most complex problems in the world really means. And we must assess the question of whether the president is integrating, ignoring or rejecting the conclusions of the intelligence community before he makes decisions.
As Mr. Trump likes to point out, intelligence agencies are not infallible — see “Iraq, nuclear weapons.” But the core of our job is helping readers understand the difference between facts on the ground, the “assessments” or judgments of the intelligence community, and the policy decisions that result.
So it is news when Mr. Trump decides he is going to deal with the Saudi crown prince, because the relationship with the kingdom outweighs the import of the C.I.A. conclusion, with medium-to-high certainty, that he was deeply involved in the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Mr. Trump called the C.I.A.’s view “feelings” rather than an assessment.) And hiding behind the fact that the C.I.A. conclusion is classified, as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did when asked about it the other day, does not silence the debate over how the United States should deal with a national leader suspected of being part of a murder conspiracy.
There was another reason to point out the differences: to prepare the country for the stark difference between the picture of the world the intelligence chiefs painted and the one Mr. Trump described last Tuesday night in his State of the Union address.
In Mr. Trump’s telling, the flood of illegal immigrants from unguarded stretches of the southwestern border is the No. 1 threat the United States must address. But drug trafficking, cartels and the issues of the Mexican border do not appear in the report until Page 18, and then comparatively fleetingly.
In the intelligence community’s judgment, it is cyber threats — to our electric grid, our privacy and our election system — that ranked No. 1, and occupied pages upon pages of the report. The intelligence chiefs, it turned out, are consumed by the long-term issues of the race with China over artificial intelligence and quantum computing, and whether we have enough programming and scientific talent in the pipeline to keep up, much less keep ahead. The issue never came up in the State of the Union address. Nor did the central conclusion of Mr. Trump’s own national security strategy: that the chief concern today has to be the renewal of great-power competition between the United States, Russia and China.
Sometimes the news is in the reports, the testimony, the leaked documents. Sometimes, it’s in the silences.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
It began as an operation targeting a cocaine ring in southern New Jersey. But after investigators listened to a wire tap, the case took on an unexpected focus: do-it-yourself firearms made from parts easily found online.
The suspects in New Jersey are accused of trying to sell several homemade AR-15 assault-style rifles that are known as ghost guns because they cannot be tracked. The AR-15 rifle is a powerful weapon similar to the one used to kill 11 people last year at a Pittsburgh synagogue.
On Monday, New Jersey law enforcement officials announced the arrests of four men who became the first defendants charged under a law passed last year that makes it illegal to buy, manufacture, possess or sell homemade guns in the state. California is the only other state that restricts such weapons, but New Jersey’s version is far more stringent, according to national gun control groups.
In fact, one of the suspects is heard on a wiretap specifically citing New Jersey’s law and saying they had to move the weapon sales out of state.
“Ghost guns are a real and dangerous menace,” Gurbir Grewal, the attorney general of New Jersey, said in a news conference in Camden where he discussed the case. “They offer criminals, convicted felons, terrorists, domestic abusers, people who we all agree shouldn’t access firearms, the ability to access them.”
New Jersey already has some of the country’s toughest gun laws, but buying parts individually and assembling them at home — often with the help of online videos and instructions — could allow people with criminal records and others who would not pass background checks to obtain guns.
Marketed to gun enthusiasts who enjoy building their own firearms, companies that sell kits are making it easier for guns to circulate illegally, law enforcement authorities and gun control advocates said.
“You go to some of the websites, they offer you discounts if you buy a pack of five or a pack of 10,” said J. Adam Skaggs, the chief counsel and policy director at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “Now, you ask yourself, am I going to buy a discounted 10-pack of ghost guns because I want to build myself 10 guns to use at the range? Or am I going to buy a 10-pack if I’m a would-be trafficker who wants to start a little factory of my own and sell these at a markup to people who can’t pass a background check?”
Across the country, there have been arrests involving ghost guns with the accused charged with violating other state and federal laws. In New York, a police sergeant was accused of selling ghost guns to members of a motorcycle gang who had criminal records.
The difficulty of disrupting illegal ghost gun operations is underscored by the circuitous route that led authorities to the trafficking ring in New Jersey.
The investigation began as a probe into a large cocaine ring in Lindenwold, a town in Camden County, Mr. Grewal said. Law enforcement authorities only became aware of the illegal gun trafficking through conversations between two of the alleged members of the criminal network that were secretly recorded.
“They changed some law,” one suspect was recorded saying, “so we gotta go over to Philly to pick them up.”
A second suspect said, “We just gotta go out of state now.’’
The suspects would have parts for guns shipped across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania to get around the New Jersey law, and then would bring them back into the state, Mr. Grewal said.
Law enforcement officials eventually recovered six AR-15 rifles made from parts without serial numbers, which were being offered on the black market for $1,100 to $1,300, nearly double the market price for an AR-15 assault-style rifle. They also intercepted parts for two more assault-style rifles that had been shipped to Pennsylvania.
Another eight men were also arrested as part of the illicit operation and were charged mostly with drug-related offenses.
Though these were the first arrests for trafficking ghost guns under the new law, Mr. Grewal said other ghost guns have turned up in the state. The State Police had recovered “well over 15 in the last year,’’ he said.
“We are starting to see them at crime scenes,’’ he added. “We are starting to see them in our investigations. They are not an abstract threat. They are a real threat to public safety.”
There are multiple investigations into ghost gun manufacturers and criminal networks, Mr. Grewal said. But, he added, responsibility also rests with manufacturers.
“When you see repeatedly the same address and the same individuals at the same location continuing to order parts and parts and parts and parts for the same types of guns, some red flags have to go up,” Mr. Grewal said.
NEW YORK — Jury selection is set to begin for a trial featuring sensational allegations that a cult-like group based in upstate New York turned women into sex slaves who were branded with the initials of its spiritual leader.
Potential jurors will be asked to fill out questionnaires Monday in federal court in Brooklyn.
Prosecutors say the purported self-help group called NXIVM formed a secret society of women who had unwanted sex with guru Keith Raniere.
Raniere and three co-defendants including heiress Clare Bronfman and TV actress Allison Mack have pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and other charges in the sex-trafficking case.
A judge hasn't ruled yet on requests by the co-defendants to get trials separate from Raniere.
Opening statements are scheduled for April 29.
MINNEAPOLIS — When Mohamed Ahmed’s third-grade daughter was assigned a school report about an African-American she admired, she chose to study her newly elected congresswoman, Ilhan Omar.
“She’s a hero to my daughters,” said Mr. Ahmed, who like the congresswoman is Somali-American. “She’s an idol. They look up to her. They aspire to be her.”
But as Ms. Omar’s comments about American Jews and Israel drew bipartisan rebukes in recent weeks, culminating Thursday with a House vote condemning anti-Semitism and other forms of hate, Mr. Ahmed had a conversation with his 8-year-old daughter about Ms. Omar.
“I told her she had a poor choice of words, which hurt people,” said Mr. Ahmed, who voted for Ms. Omar but was unsure whether he would do so again. “And words matter if you’re a leader.”
[A House resolution condemning “hateful expressions of intolerance”  was as much a statement of Democrats’ values as their factionalism.]
Across Minnesota’s snow-covered Fifth Congressional District — a bright-blue bastion of independent coffee shops, Somali malls and proudly progressive politics — the voters who overwhelmingly elected Ms. Omar in November were conflicted about her recent remarks, sometimes along surprising lines. Ms. Omar’s comments, and the weeks of backlash, raised questions about tolerance and free speech in a place that consistently elects a diverse slate of politicians, as well as concerns about the future of a carefully crafted rapport between leaders of the area’s sizable Jewish and Muslim communities.
“We don’t want these issues to derail the relationship,” said Steve Hunegs, the executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council of Minnesota and the Dakotas, who said he was “appalled” by Ms. Omar’s most recent remarks.
Ms. Omar’s district, which spans Minneapolis and some of its inner-ring suburbs, is a place attuned to religious tension. Longtime members of the Somali community still speak about the profiling they experienced in the years after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and about the fear they felt after a mosque was bombed by white supremacists in nearby Bloomington in 2017. In those difficult times, they said, Jewish leaders in Minnesota made a point of stating their support.
“When religion is under attack, they stand by us, because they’ve been there,” said Zahra Ali, a Somali-American resident of Minneapolis who once saw Ms. Omar’s election as a beacon of hope but who did not plan to vote for her again.
“For her to go out there and target, on a daily basis, Jews, is very sad,” Ms. Ali said.
Ms. Omar, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, was seen by voters as a symbolic counterweight to President Trump, who is deeply unpopular in Minneapolis and who has spoken critically about the region’s large Somali population. Ms. Omar, a Somali refugee who came to the United States as a girl, received more than three-quarters of the vote last year, taking over a seat that had been held by Keith Ellison, a fellow Democrat and the country’s first Muslim elected to Congress.
“Here in Minnesota, we don’t only welcome immigrants, we send them to Washington,” Ms. Omar told a jubilant crowd at her election night party.
But shortly after her victory, Ms. Omar began drawing controversy with her remarks about Jews and Israel. At various points, she suggested that Israel was not a democracy, insinuated that American support for Israel was motivated by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group and said pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country.”
Rabbi Avi Olitzky, who helps lead a congregation in suburban St. Louis Park, in Ms. Omar’s district, said some of his members had gone from wanting to make sure their congresswoman was better educated about anti-Semitism to frightened about her views.
“I think we’ve seen the recognition of the weight of her words, but the continued comments don’t reflect that sensitivity,” said Rabbi Olitzky, who said he had consulted with Ms. Omar and her aides in recent weeks. He suggested that the congresswoman should consider participating in bipartisan trips to Israel and making a visit to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. Still, he cautioned: “I don’t know about bouncing back” from the damage already done.
Ms. Omar, who has apologized for some of her remarks, has insisted that she is not anti-Semitic. She has also drawn attention to bigoted attacks against herself. Ms. Omar tweeted an image of threatening graffiti that was reported at a Minnesota gas station, and suggested a double-standard after West Virginia Republicans displayed a poster that linked fading memories of the 9/11 attacks to her election.
But even with bipartisan misgivings about Ms. Omar, the biggest threat to her political future is from fellow Democrats, not Republicans, who are vastly outnumbered in her diverse, mostly urban district. There have already been mutterings about a primary challenge in 2020, and though no such candidate has yet emerged, patience among some Democrats is clearly wearing thin.
“Representative Omar has used up the reservoir of good will generally granted to those who begin new jobs by repeatedly insulting the Jewish people even after being told that her words are dangerous and hurtful,” said State Senator Ron Latz, a Democrat from St. Louis Park, in a recent statement. Mr. Latz called on the congresswoman to “discuss policy without inflaming religious conflict.”
Still, the deeply liberal makeup of Ms. Omar’s district — a mix of urban and suburban neighborhoods where “Black Lives Matter” signs and L.G.B.T. rights flags are common sights — may shield her from political punishment. Ms. Omar trounced her primary opponents last year, and she built an enthusiastic coalition of supporters of different racial and religious identities.
And though many constituents, including some Muslims, saw Ms. Omar crossing a line and trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes, others, including members of the district’s Jewish community, said they were offended only by what they perceived as partisan, even racist, attacks on their congresswoman for legitimate criticisms of Israel.
“I feel like she’s being attacked because she’s a black Muslim,” said Ethan Wilensky-Lanford, 38, who is Jewish, and who distributed campaign literature for Ms. Omar last year.
Anne Winkler-Morey, also a Jewish resident of Ms. Omar’s district, said she had discussed the congresswoman’s comments with her Somali friends and did not find the remarks offensive.
“She’s speaking out about a foreign policy, whether you agree with her or not,” Ms. Winkler-Morey said. “It’s actually an anti-Semitic idea that the State of Israel represents Jews and you have to show your allegiance to this state. It doesn’t represent me, just as Saudi Arabia doesn’t represent Muslims.”
But the comments had created an uncomfortable rift in the district, even among loyal Democrats who usually agree on politics. Khalid Mohamed, a Somali-American resident of Minneapolis who said he interned for Ms. Omar when she was a state legislator, reached out to a Jewish friend who had posted critiques of the congresswoman on Twitter.
“I told him that I needed to talk to him,” Mr. Mohamed said. “If a person thinks what Omar says is anti-Semitic, well, I haven’t lived as a Jewish person. Personally, I don’t believe it. But let’s put the feelings aside.”
Mr. Mohamed said he and his friend planned to meet for a meal to talk it out on Friday, sometime after morning prayers.
The Boston Red Sox received their latest World Series rings on Tuesday, and this version — their fourth in the last 15 seasons — is a beauty. Encircling the facing are two rows of 128 total diamonds, symbolizing the franchise’s nine overall championships and its 119 victories in 2018. The inscription under the band is not subtle: TEAM FOR THE AGES.
So it was. The Red Sox were so dominant last October that they lost only once in each of their three postseason series. In their first three series of this season, though, they won only once apiece. They lost their home opener, too, leaving their record at 3-9 before Thursday night’s game against the Toronto Blue Jays.
The easy explanation is the schedule: The Red Sox were the last team to play at home this season, opening on the road against the Seattle Mariners, the Oakland Athletics and the Arizona Diamondbacks before finally staggering back to Fenway Park. No other defending champion had ever played its first 11 games on the road.
Then again, any rough part of a schedule always, by definition, creates an easier patch later. The Red Sox have already finished their longest road trip of the season, and they will play 13 of their final 22 games at Fenway. The Yankees, on the other hand, will play just six of their final 21 games in the Bronx.
By then, perhaps, the Tampa Bay Rays will have run away with the American League East. The Rays were Boston’s mirror image through 12 games, with a 9-3 record. While Tampa Bay starters had a major league-best 1.77 earned run average in those games, Boston starters had a major league-worst 8.78 E.R.A.
How bad is an 8.78 E.R.A. through 12 starts? To put it in an individual context, consider that only seven pitchers have ever had a higher E.R.A. in a season of 12 or more starts. One of them was the Pittsburgh Pirates’ Steve Blass in 1973, when he suddenly lost the ability to throw strikes. The mysterious condition has since been known colloquially as Steve Blass Disease.
The early failure of the Red Sox rotation is only slightly less startling than the woes of Blass, who had starred in the playoffs the previous fall and thrown the final pitch of the World Series the year before that. Chris Sale — who collected the final out for the Red Sox at Dodger Stadium last October — is 0-3 with a 9.00 E.R.A., a confounding start for a pitcher who signed a five-year, $145 million contract extension last month.
Sale, 30, has actually not yet begun that deal; it runs from 2020 through 2024. While he closed out last season in a scripted moment of triumph — the Red Sox had a four-run lead in Game 5 and had squeezed the life from the Dodgers — he has not pitched more the six innings in a start since before the All-Star break last July. Sale was bothered by shoulder trouble down the stretch and worked just 30⅓ innings in his final eight starts, including the postseason.
The Red Sox were satisfied enough with the condition of Sale’s shoulder to give him the new contract. But Sale’s average fastball velocity has dipped to 91.3 miles per hour this season, according to Fangraphs, down from 94.7 last season. He has thrown 88 fastballs so far, according to MLB.com, and generated just two swinging strikes.
“I’m struggling,” Sale told reporters after Tuesday’s 7-5 loss, in which he lasted just four innings. “I don’t know if I’ve ever pitched like this in my life.”
The Red Sox did not expect to worry about their rotation. Their starters all made relief cameos last postseason, eager to contribute to a title run and expertly deployed by Manager Alex Cora. In spring training, Cora limited their workload — even more than he had the year before — with an eye on the long game.
“We want them to be great the whole season, but we don’t want them to be in a situation where they come in April and they’re great, but throughout the season they’re going down, down, down,” Cora said in March. “Every game counts, obviously, from March 28 all the way to the end of the regular season, but we want them to be consistent, and I think they understand that.”
With their farm system largely depleted by trades, the Red Sox have invested heavily in their starters. Sale, David Price, Rick Porcello, Nathan Eovaldi and Eduardo Rodriguez will combine to make about $88.5 million this season, more than the entire payroll of the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Baltimore Orioles, the Miami Marlins or the Rays.
Yet the Red Sox have met the minimum requirements for a quality start (at least six innings, no more than three earned runs) just once so far: on April 2 in Oakland, when Sale allowed one run over six innings, with only one strikeout.
There are encouraging signs. The Red Sox bullpen — minus Craig Kimbrel, the unsigned free agent closer — has performed well, with a 3.61 E.R.A. All of the major position players are healthy. The starters have a proven track record.
But no team has repeated as World Series champions since 2000, before baseball began testing for performance-enhancing drugs. The toll of three postseason rounds — without the same access to shortcuts for physical recovery — appears to be real.
For inspiration, the Red Sox could look to another Boston team that recovered from an even worse beginning to win a championship: The 1914 Boston Braves started 3-16 yet romped to a pennant and upended the Philadelphia A’s to win the World Series.
Of course, history knows that team as the Miracle Braves — and it just might take another miracle for the Red Sox to stage an encore of the team for the ages.
HARK By Sam Lipsyte 284 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27.
We begin with a schmuck. His name is Fraz Penzig — Fraz being how his father, Frank, once heard himself paged over a static-filled airport loudspeaker. “Penzig men,” writes Sam Lipsyte. “Always hovering just outside of an inside joke they have played on themselves.” It’s hard to diminish a character faster than naming him for a mistake, but we soon learn that Fraz is abrasive and useless at his job. He has a porn fetish that’s common knowledge in his grossed-out social circle. His 8-year-old twins may have rectal parasites. His wife, Tovah, enjoys French-kissing one of Fraz’s childhood rivals. “Tovah told him that life is not a zero-sum game, but Fraz senses that if it were, he would be the zero sum.”
Hark Morner is also named for a mistake, this one involving a foreign-born mother and a Christmas carol. “She thought the song was about someone telling their friend Hark that the herald angels were singing,” Hark tells Fraz. But where Fraz has been sinking since birth, Hark is rising — as in “glory to the newborn king” rising — through mental archery, a quasi-religious mindfulness regimen of his own creation. He’s still in the pamphlet-selling phase when he meets Fraz, and he’s not the chattiest messiah. But when Hark speaks, “his voice is an enchanted river with roars and hushes and thick, crystal swerves. It carves a course for Fraz to follow, to flow toward, out from his fetid backwaters, his brack stink.”
[ The paper’s 2010 review of “The Ask” called it “the sort of book that, if it were an animal, would be a lumbering, hairy, cryptozoological ape-man with a near-crippling case of elephantiasis.” ]
The attraction and repulsion between would-be Jesus and his apostle Costanza is a major story line in “Hark,” though it’s hardly the only one. “Hark” is Lipsyte’s first novel since 2010’s much-loved “The Ask,” and similarities abound. Both are satires featuring underemployed, middle-aged New York Jewish protagonists with abandoned artistic dreams, cheating wives and snack-food obsessions. That’s a pretty specific box on the census form for a writer to check twice. Both also veer away from narrative to chase any excuse for a riff — then swing back with prose so good you feel guilty complaining about the whiplash. The difference is that in “Hark” the riffing has more serious consequences.
“Hark” is split into halves, the first of which is extremely funny. In a few swift pages we learn that Hark started as a stooge on the corporate speaker’s circuit, hired to bore audiences with meaningless aphorisms (“You are the arrow! But you are also what it pierces”) until an executive ringer would eject him from the stage to heroic applause. “Hark wasn’t the only person who worked this niche. A guy named Cornelius the Corporate Impostor had the gig before Hark. Big Lev from Biz Dev had sewn up Silicon Valley. But they were too broad. Nobody bought their acts after a line or two. Hark twitched with the plausible.”
 [Read: Sam Lipsyte on the role of sex scenes in fiction.]
In the midst of these gigs, Hark has his revelation. It’s a recurring joke that no one can explain mental archery beyond its “focus on focus,” but pamphlets are written, yoga poses created (“Priapic Centaur, Roaring Rama, Encircling Sioux”), and a core of acolytes gather. There’s the heiress Kate Rumpler and Teal, Kate’s anticapitalist, ex-convict ex-girlfriend. (Kate: “You did do time for embezzlement.” Teal: “That company was building fascism in America. And its shipping policies were absurd.”) Kate funds Hark with her inheritance. Teal runs Hark Hub, home of the latest Hark videos and social threads. Fraz fancies himself the movement’s Steve Bannon, while the others regard him as its Michael Cohen. All are mired in ironic detachment from their misery and attracted to Hark’s simple message. But they’re unsure if his odd speech and mannerisms are signs of sanctity or just weirdness. “Maybe Fraz is too impure to know the difference.”
Having dropped Hark at the edge of a Tony Robbins-like breakthrough in Part 1, the story unravels some in Part 2 — for Hark and for “Hark.” Lipsyte crowds the plot with a stalker/Svengali, an organ-donation kidnapping thingumajig, and an Elon Musk-y villain, complete with surgically dyed irises, who exists mostly as a reason for Lipsyte to groove on big tech. He also shoves his skeptical Greek chorus aggressively toward belief, leading to lines like this from Fraz to Kate: “There’s something a little too uncomplicated in Hark for people like us. Thing is, we’ve got to change, not him.”
That’s a honker of a passage, though it serves Lipsyte’s point — that modern life is so grim, people will bend far below the limbo bar of logic in search of some peace. Even the author can’t make up his mind about Hark and mental archery. “Fraz does believe,” he writes, only to double back a few sentences later and suggest that he doesn’t.
But the battle between Hark and Fraz is never a fair fight. Regardless of the deficiencies Lipsyte piles onto them, Fraz, Kate, Teal and others are fully formed characters. We know Fraz’s inner life, see moments of tenderness with his kids, and even get the occasional glimpse of his appeal. Calling back to Fraz’s courtship with Tovah, Lipsyte writes: “He told her to consider him a downed wire: unpredictable, potentially lethal. Tovah thought him more a lost shoelace, but adorable.”
Hark, meanwhile, is a great idea and a lousy character. He’s only ever alive as a vessel for riffs about belief, fraud, transcendence, corporate off-sites, etc. Many of these are dazzling, but hardly all of them, and Hark is in the book a lot. There’s considerable time given to his speeches: “What we learn from the example of the Mongols.…” Meta, sure. But meta-boring is still boring. In an attempt to give Hark a bit more flesh some information gets sprinkled in — he’s a cop’s kid, his favorite drink is ice — but it’s a tough sell that smart, damaged, witty, miserable people would lend Hark their attention for longer than it would take to ridicule him. Let alone devote their tiny reservoirs of hope to something as inchoate as mental archery.
Lipsyte tries to give his characters cleaner moments of salvation before wrapping things up, but this being a Christ allegory tucked inside a satire, it’s safe to say it doesn’t end terribly well for anyone. It’s a shame. Not only because so much of “Hark” is brilliantly alive, but because everyone in it could use a bit of mercy.
The crime scene was grisly. Three people, tied up with plastic zip ties, were shot execution style and set on fire inside a barn in a small town in rural Pennsylvania on a summer day two and a half years ago. One clung to life, but died the next day.
Now, the authorities say they have found the culprits behind the gangland-style killings.
In an indictment unsealed last week, 11 people who federal prosecutors said were members of the Black Guerrilla Family, a nationwide gang active in drug trafficking, murder and other crimes, were indicted in connection with the killings.
The authorities said the deaths began as part of a plot to silence a police informant that grew to include the killing of two others. The defendants have been charged with a range of crimes including murder, attempted murder, witness tampering, robbery, drug trafficking and illegal possession of a firearm by a felon.
One of the defendants, Jerell Adgebesan, was tied up one year after the killings by several other defendants who wanted to kill him because they suspected he was cooperating with law enforcement, according to the indictment. He has been charged with murder, witness tampering and drug trafficking.
The primary target of the killings was Wendy Chaney, who sold drugs for the gang — including cocaine hydrochloride, crack cocaine and heroin — in Franklin County, Pa., prosecutors said. They also said she was an informant for the Washington County Drug Task Force in Hagerstown, Md., part of the federal Drug Enforcement Administration.
According to the indictment, three of the suspects — Devin Dickerson, Kevin Coles and Torey White — began to suspect that Ms. Chaney was cooperating with law enforcement in June 2016 and quickly hatched a plan to kill her, recruiting other gang members from Baltimore and Hagerstown to assist them. All three have been charged with murder, witness tampering, robbery and drug trafficking.
Prosecutors said Mr. White, who had been in a romantic relationship with Ms. Chaney, lured her on June 25, 2016, to a barn in Mercersburg, Pa., that was owned by Phillip Jackson, a local drug dealer whom the group planned to rob.
Once there, prosecutors said, the defendants attacked Mr. Jackson, Ms. Chaney and a third person, Brandon Coles, binding their wrists before shooting them each in the head or back. The indictment does not describe Mr. Jackson or Mr. Coles as suspected informants, but says each man was shot once. Ms. Chaney was shot twice.
In a separate matter, Mr. White was sentenced last year to more than 10 years in prison for drug possession and illegal possession of a firearm. At his sentencing hearing last February, both he and the prosecutor, William A. Behe, addressed the killings at the barn, which were still being investigated.
Mr. Behe said law enforcement officials first encountered Mr. White when police officers arrived at the barn on the day of the killings and found him there with “three people bound behind their back with zip ties, shot in the head and in the back, their bodies set on fire, murdered execution style.”
But according to a transcript of his sentencing hearing, Mr. White said he had been trying to help the victims and was too high when the police arrived to tell them what had happened.
“I was the one that actually called the police to come save one of the victims that was living when the officers got there,” Mr. White responded in court. “Those were my friends.”
Officers released Mr. White on the night of the killings but later searched his home, Mr. Behe said at sentencing. The prosecutor said they found crack and powder cocaine, marijuana, digital scales, an AK-47 rifle, a Dan Wesson .44 magnum handgun, a box of .44 caliber ammunition, a pouch of .762 caliber rounds of ammunition and 6.44 magazine rounds.
The indictment does not mention Mr. White’s presence at the scene of the killings when police officers arrived. It said the defendants fled after the shooting, stopping at a nearby convenience store to pistol whip and rob a customer there on their way home.
Prosecutors said when the police arrived at the barn on the day of the killings, Mr. Jackson was still alive. He died of his injuries the next day.
Prosecutors said Mr. Coles and Mr. Dickerson were arrested in July 2016 in Hagerstown on drug trafficking charges. In the meantime, the other defendants began to suspect that Mr. Adgebesan was cooperating with homicide investigators. Prosecutors said that they tied him up and planned to kill him, but that he escaped.
A lawyer for Mr. Coles did not respond to a message seeking comment on Monday, and Elisabeth K. H. Pasqualini, who represents Mr. Dickerson, declined to comment. It was not clear who, if anyone, was representing Mr. White or Mr. Adgebesan.
The office of the federal prosecutor, David Freed, has not issued a statement about the indictment, and Mr. Behe said by email that he was unable to comment on Monday night.
A spokesman for Mr. Freed did not respond to a message seeking comment on Monday evening. A notice on the office’s website said its public affairs operations would be “very limited” during the partial government shutdown, which began Dec. 22.
Brent Miller, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania State Police, said that all 11 suspects were in custody. He also said the state police would not answer questions about the case until the end of the government shutdown, when they planned to hold a news conference with federal law enforcement officials.
MILWAUKEE — Miami had glamour; Houston, vastness. But in the race to win the 2020 Democratic National Convention, it was Milwaukee — plucky, proud and a little faded, that triumphed over its sunnier competitors.
“I always laugh when I think about Milwaukee in the public imagination, because mostly it’s a place where you’re from, rather than a place you go,” said Daniel Goldin, the owner of Boswell Book Company, a bookstore on Milwaukee’s East Side, along Lake Michigan.
In July 2020, tens of thousands of delegates, party officials, activists and news reporters will descend on this city, many for the first time. It will be a transformative number of people for a city of 600,000 that’s unaccustomed to a lot of fuss. Here is what any visitor to the place will need to know, from someone who long ago decided her all-important frozen custard allegiance. (More on that later.)
“Our reputation is fully still cows, cheese, beer, maybe a pretzel or a sausage,” said C.J. Darnieder, 29, as he tended bar on Monday at Honeypie, a restaurant in the Bay View neighborhood.
But the state has far more to offer than Schlitz, bratwurst and sauerkraut. Newer restaurants like Honeypie source their meats and vegetables from Wisconsin farms, fish from Lake Superior and craft beers from local breweries.
Some of the old Wisconsin traditions remain: The region’s residents still debate whether Leon’s, Gilles or Kopp’s has the best frozen custard.
Bloody Marys are served with a generous beer chaser, and ordering one before noon won’t prompt any judgment. Try a Spotted Cow, an ale brewed in New Glarus that is ubiquitous in Wisconsin but not sold anywhere else. If you’re driving in from a neighboring state, do as Upper Midwesterners do and buy a case to smuggle home in your trunk.
Water is a major obsession in Wisconsin, especially as fears over climate change intensify. Enjoy the singular beauty of Lake Michigan, which in July will be at its sparkling best, cooling the city with lake breezes. (If you’re tough enough, head to the beach and take a bracing swim.)
Read up on the city’s connection to the lake before you get here, starting with “The Death and Life of the Great Lakes” by Dan Egan, a reporter at The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, and “Milwaukee: A City Built on Water” by John Gurda, Milwaukee’s unofficial historian.
At the charmingly chill Milwaukee airport — after you pass through the “Recombobulation Area” — pick up a souvenir refrigerator magnet with the very Milwaukee phrase “Where’s the bubbler?” (Outside of southeastern Wisconsin, that’s called a water fountain.)
There are fewer than 6,000 hotel rooms in downtown Milwaukee and close to 18,000 in the greater metropolitan area. Hotels in nearby counties — Waukesha, Ozaukee, Racine, even Kenosha — are expected to be filled when the convention comes. That means a lot of driving up and down Interstate 94, the main artery connecting Milwaukee and Chicago. If you’re heading south, take a detour and visit Wingspread, a pinwheel-shaped building designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, whose home state was Wisconsin. You might get stuck behind a driver following the local custom of cruising the speed limit in the left lane. Suppress your out-of-towner rage and the urge to tailgate.
All of downtown Milwaukee feels like it’s under construction. There are cranes, scaffolding, half-built hotels and half-demolished structures. City officials say things will be spruced up in time for the convention, so visitors can enjoy the glass-walled breweries, stay in new hotels and ride a sleek little streetcar that locals call The Hop (it opened in 2018).
Within a block or two of the convention site is Mader’s, an old-school restaurant celebrating the city’s German heritage, and the Wisconsin Cheese Mart, a shop that has been around since 1938.
“It’s going to be insane,” said Max Haglund, 30, a cheesemonger, adding that he is braced for the convention crowds to be overwhelming. “We know everyone who comes here is going to be looking for cheese.”
Nearly 40 percent of Milwaukeeans are African-American, and a museum exploring black history and the legacy of slavery, called America’s Black Holocaust Museum, is hoping to reopen in 2019. Some of the older neighborhoods around the city have transformed in recent decades, like Bay View, which is now a hub for art and good eating. Younger people are spurring change, said Jennifer and Michael Wolf, who were having lunch there on Monday. “The generational shift in Milwaukee has been huge,” said Ms. Wolf, adding that the city has lately become cleaner, more focused on the arts and friendlier to bicyclists.
Still, Milwaukee remains one of the most segregated cities in the country. Arthur Talley, 60, a factory worker who was running errands downtown, said race relations had hardly improved since he was a child growing up there. “We’re still marginalized,” he said. “People see two or three African-Americans coming down the street, and they cross the street to avoid us.”
Milwaukee doesn’t like to throw things away. On the old Pabst factory campus, there are now loft apartments. Domestic sales at Milwaukee-based Harley-Davidson have slipped, but the city’s motorcycling culture is thriving at the Iron Horse Hotel, a warehouse-turned-luxurious-hotel with a special station for washing your Harley.
And there is still a certain fondness here for anything set in Milwaukee. Along the riverfront is a statue of the “Happy Days” television character played by Henry Winkler, known as the Bronze Fonz.
Words to strike from your vocabulary upon arrival: “Rust Belt,” a term that Milwaukeeans are likely to think is dated and vaguely insulting; “heartland,” a word that is rarely used by someone who is actually from the so-called heartland; and “Midwestern Nice.” (The proper term is “Minnesota Nice,” and it doesn’t mean nice, exactly — it’s sort of the Midwestern equivalent of “bless your heart.”)
The ethos of Wisconsin is a little different than what some visitors may be used to at home. Wisconsinites tend to smile a little more at strangers, make small talk in elevators and chat about the weather to fill silences. Milwaukeeans are especially ebullient during the (brief) summers, when the city is humming with festivals at churches and along the lakefront.
Marty Ordinans, a lifelong Milwaukeean who works at a technical college, said he hoped convention visitors would share the experience of his son’s girlfriend, a native Californian who recently ventured to Wisconsin for a visit. “She had a nice time,” he said. “And she kept saying she was struck by how friendly people were.”
Though they were flattered and thrilled by the announcement, Milwaukeeans said they had a feeling they knew why they had been chosen for the convention. Hillary Clinton, the party’s nominee in 2016, didn’t campaign in Wisconsin during the general election, and Democrats, who had seemed sure they would take Wisconsin, lost by a painfully small sliver of 22,000 votes. Turnout in heavily Democratic Milwaukee is crucial to the party retaking the state in 2020.
This time, Mr. Ordinans said gently, “They shouldn’t forget about the Midwest.”
Julie Bosman, a correspondent in the Chicago Bureau, was born and raised in Wisconsin. (For the record, she prefers custard at Kopp’s.) Follow her on Twitter.
Matt Chapman broke a sixth-inning tie with a home run Wednesday night, helping the host Oakland Athletics snap the Houston Astros' 10-game winning streak with a 2-1 victory.
Frankie Montas (3-1) gave up one run and three hits in 6 1/3 innings, and the Oakland bullpen got the final eight outs as the A's beat the Astros for the first time in five tries this season to split the two-game series.
Wade Miley (1-2), who took a 5-1 career record against the A's to the mound, was the hard-luck loser, allowing two runs on just four hits in six innings.
Indians 1, Mariners 0
Carlos Carrasco pitched seven scoreless innings as Cleveland completed a three-game sweep of host Seattle. Jake Bauers hit a solo homer to account for the game's lone run.
Carrasco (2-2), who allowed six runs in two of his first three starts of the season and entered the game with a 12.60 ERA, showed the form that helped him win 35 games over the past two seasons with the Indians.
Carrasco allowed only three hits, walked two and struck out 12.
Dodgers 3, Reds 2
A.J. Pollock interrupted a pitchers' duel with a three-run home run, and Los Angeles finished off a three-game series sweep with a victory over visiting Cincinnati.
With Reds starter Sonny Gray locked in a scoreless showdown with Dodgers starter Walker Buehler, Pollock came through in the sixth inning as Los Angeles tied the major league record for consecutive games with a home run at home.
The Dodgers have hit at least one home run in 32 consecutive games going back to last season, matching the mark set by the Colorado Rockies in 1999.
Phillies 3, Mets 2
Jake Arrieta pitched eight-plus solid innings, Scott Kingery and Cesar Hernandez each homered, and host Philadelphia defeated New York.
J.T. Realmuto had two hits for the Phillies, who played without shortstop Jean Segura due to a strained left hamstring.
Arrieta (3-1) allowed six hits and two runs and induced the Mets into 12 ground-ball outs. He walked two and struck out three. Hector Neris earned the shaky save despite allowing an RBI single and hitting Wilson Ramos. Neris struck out Keon Broxton swinging on a 3-2 count with the bases loaded in the ninth.
Cardinals 6, Brewers 3
Paul DeJong matched his career high with four hits, and visiting St. Louis avoided a three-game sweep with a win against Milwaukee.
Michael Wacha (1-0) improved to 6-0 in his career against the Brewers, allowing two runs and five hits in six innings, striking out seven and walking one.
Marcell Ozuna hit his fifth home run in the past four games. Matt Carpenter also homered, while Kolten Wong had three hits and Matt Wieters had two hits and two RBIs for the Cardinals.
Diamondbacks 3, Braves 2 (10 innings)
Adam Jones walked with the bases loaded and Arizona exploited the struggling Atlanta bullpen for the second straight night. The winning rally came against Jesse Biddle (0-1), whose throwing error allowed Tim Locastro to reach second base with one out. Biddle walked Jarrod Dyson, coaxed Eduardo Escobar into a lineout and then walked David Peralta.
Greg Holland pitched a scoreless 10th inning, striking out two, to earn his fourth save and extend his scoreless streak to 11 innings. Archie Bradley (1-1) pitched two scoreless innings and earned the win.
Brewers starter Corbin Burnes (0-2) had allowed three home runs in each of his first three starts this season and gave up two more before leaving after 3 1/3 innings. He yielded five runs on nine hits and two walks while striking out three.
Yankees 5, Red Sox 3
Brett Gardner hit a grand slam off Ryan Brasier with one out in the seventh inning, and New York rallied past Boston to complete a two-game sweep at Yankee Stadium.
The Yankees loaded the bases on two walks and a single by Clint Frazier against Brandon Workman (0-1).
It was Gardner's 100th career homer and fourth career grand slam. It was his first grand slam since June 30, 2017, in Houston off James Hoyt.
Cubs 6, Marlins 0
Cole Hamels pitched seven scoreless innings to lead Chicago to a shutout win at Miami.
All six Cubs runs scored on two-out, opposite-field hits as Chicago completed a three-game sweep. Daniel Descalso went 2-for-3 with three RBIs, and Javier Baez went 2-for-4 and homered for the second straight game.
Hamels (3-0) allowed just three hits -- all singles -- and no walks, striking out eight and lowering his ERA to 2.77. He got 11 groundouts.
Nationals 9, Giants 6
Juan Soto and Howie Kendrick hit homers in the first inning, and Matt Adams and Kurt Suzuki went deep in the seventh as Washington held on to beat visiting San Francisco.
Adams hit a three-run homer off Travis Bergen to give his team a 7-2 lead in the seventh. Two batters later, Suzuki went deep with a two-run shot.
The Giants erupted for four runs in the ninth as Gerardo Parra and Steven Duggar hit two-run homers to make it 9-6 off reliever Austen Williams with no outs. That brought on Kyle Barraclough, who retired the only batter he faced before closer Sean Doolittle got the final two outs after allowing a double to Buster Posey and a walk to Brandon Belt.
Pirates 3, Tigers 2 (10 innings)
Colin Moran knocked in the go-ahead run in the 10th, and Pittsburgh edged host Detroit for the second consecutive night.
Josh Bell was the only other Pirate to record an RBI. Nick Burdi (2-1) pitched an inning of scoreless relief to notch the victory. Felipe Vazquez got the last three outs to pick up his fifth save.
Pirates starter Trevor Williams allowed two runs on six hits and a walk while striking out five in six innings. Detroit's Spencer Turnbull only gave up an unearned run in six innings while limiting Pittsburgh to two hits and two walks. He fanned five. Ronny Rodriguez and John Hicks drove in the runs for the Tigers, who have dropped five straight.
Rays 8, Orioles 1
Brandon Lowe, Ji-Man Choi and Yandy Diaz each homered as Tampa Bay defeated visiting Baltimore.
The Rays have taken the first two games of this series and have belted four homers so far. Lowe's homer was the big one in this contest, a three-run shot off Baltimore starter David Hess, and it gave the Rays a 3-0 lead in the first inning.
Five Tampa Bay players finished with at least two hits as the Rays banged out 13 overall, nine for extra bases.
Rangers 5, Angels 4
Shin-Soo Choo had two hits, including a two-run triple in the decisive fifth inning to lead Texas past visiting Los Angeles. Choo, who raised his batting average to .345, was instrumental in Texas sweeping the three-game series.
Rangers starter Lance Lynn (2-1) worked out of trouble early and minimized damage before exiting with two outs in the sixth inning. Lynn allowed just two runs on seven hits and three walks. He struck out two.
Rangers closer Jose Leclerc notched his fifth save, although he made it adventurous. Entering with a 5-3 lead, he loaded the bases with no outs on a David Fletcher double, a walk to Kole Calhoun and a Mike Trout hit-by-pitch. Leclerc dodged disaster, allowing only a fielder's choice RBI to Andrelton Simmons between striking out Justin Bour looking and Brian Goodwin swinging.
Royals 4, White Sox 3 (10 innings)
Hunter Dozier homered to lead off the 10th inning, and visiting Kansas City posted a victory over Chicago in a game that featured a benches-clearing melee.
After his RBI single in the seventh gave Kansas City a 3-2 lead, Dozier launched a 2-0 inside fastball from Nate Jones (0-1) over the wall in left field for his fifth homer of the season.
Chicago's Tim Anderson punctuated his two-run homer off Kansas City starter Brad Keller in the fourth inning by emphatically tossing his bat. Keller drilled Anderson in the backside on the first pitch to lead off the sixth inning, resulting in both benches and bullpens rushing the field. Keller, Anderson, White Sox manager Rick Renteria and Royals bench coach Dale Sveum were ejected
Twins 4, Blue Jays 1
Nelson Cruz went 2-for-3 with a walk and two RBIs, and Jake Odorizzi allowed just one run over 5 2/3 innings as Minnesota beat Toronto in Minneapolis.
Odorizzi (1-2) allowed six hits and one walk while striking out six. Blake Parker retired all three batters he faced in the ninth, including two by strikeouts, to pick up his fourth save.
Jorge Polanco went 2-for-3 with a walk and scored two runs, raising his average to .429, and Marwin Gonzalez also went 2-for-3 with a walk and an RBI for the Twins. Freddy Galvis went 2-for-4 with a run for Toronto.
--Field Level Media
BRUSSELS — Google will have to pay publishers for news snippets and Facebook filter out protected content under new copyright rules aimed at ensuring fair compensation for the European Union's $1 trillion creative industries.
EU governments on Monday backed the move launched by the European Commission two years ago to protect Europe's creative industries, which employ 11.7 million people in the bloc.
"When it comes to completing Europe's digital single market, the copyright reform is the missing piece of the puzzle," the Commission's president Jean-Claude Juncker said in a statement.
Under the new rules, Google and other online platforms will have to sign licensing agreements with musicians, performers, authors, news publishers and journalists to use their work.
The European Parliament gave a green light last month to a proposal that has pitted Europe's creative industry against tech companies, internet activists and consumer groups.
Wikipedia blacked out several European sites in protest last month, while the change was opposed by Finland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden.
But 19 countries, including France and Germany, endorsed the revamp, while Belgium, Estonia and Slovenia abstained.
Under the new regime Google-owned YouTube, Facebook's Instagram and other sharing platforms will have to install filters to prevent users from uploading copyrighted materials. 
Google said the new rules would hurt Europe's creative and digital economies, while critics said it would hit cash-strapped smaller companies rather than the tech giants.
Poland said the overhaul was a step backwards as the filter requirement may lay the foundation for censorship.
EU lawmaker for the European Pirate Party Julia Reda, who had campaigned against the reforms, said critics could take their case to court but it would be slow and difficult and that the best thing would be to monitor fair implementation.
The European Magazine Media Association, the European Newspaper Publishers’ Association, the European Publishers Council, News Media Europe and independent music labels lobbying group Impala welcomed the move.
EU countries have two years to transpose the copyright directive into national laws. 
 (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee; editing by Philip Blenkinsop and Alexander Smith)
In a dive bar underneath the Williamsburg Bridge in Brooklyn, fans of an obscure soccer team gathered after an entire workday of information blackout. They spent their Tuesday avoiding calls from family members and social media in its entirety because they didn’t want to spoil the outcome of a match that technically ended long ago, halfway across the world in Germany.
When their team scored what would be their only goal of the game, the supporters chanted raucously for “the boys in brown,” thrusting their pints in the air, none the wiser that it was, as it frequently has been, already a lost cause.
“One of the biggest crimes you could commit with this group is to mention you know the outcome,” said Karl Paranya, who lives in the neighborhood and has been watching the matches since he first stumbled into East River Bar about seven years back. “It can be a bit awkward because our cries don’t do anything for a team that finished eight hours ago, but it feels the same for us.”
The team they follow is F.C. St. Pauli, a tiny club whose games no cable soccer package broadcasts live; it would be like expecting to find an Orlando Solar Bears hockey game on ESPN.
But what draws Mr. Paranya and the rest of the supporters here is the team’s unusual politics: F.C. St. Pauli is an avowed anti-fascist soccer team based in Hamburg that plays in Germany’s second division and hasn’t won the title in more than 40 years, though it runs a kindergarten inside the stadium, which displays signs proclaiming “no person is illegal.” The club has a worldwide, international fandom that defines itself in opposition to the racism and violence that characterizes European football hooliganism.
The East River Pirates, as they’re known, are still only maybe one of 10 supporters’ groups in North America, and the only official one in the city. As such, East River Bar has become an unlikely spiritual home for German tourists, as well as a set of extremely devoted American fans who are far more interested in the team for their politics than whether or not they’re in possession of the ball at any given time.
“It’s not like we’re that invested in the game play or the results,” said Shawn Roggenkamp, age 32, who helps coordinate the loose gathering of fans. “But it is a reason for us to get together every week and bring this group of people together who maybe wouldn’t have found each other any other way.”
East River Bar, which began as paint factory and was also a biker hangout in a previous life, was purchased about 15 years ago by Marek Gregorski, a Polish expatriate. His intention was originally to serve food, though he said the money for that part of the business fell through. The cheap drinks, cavernous space, and location next to the Williamsburg Bridge soon attracted a specific clientele, which Mr. Gregorski happily catered to. “At some point we started to get some bike messengers, more and more of them, and we became a staple for hosting messengers and their parties,” Mr. Gregorski said. “They get off work, and this is their first stop to get a beer and relax a little bit.”
The Pirates, who celebrated their 10th anniversary this past November, were initially regarded as oddballs at East River, which is decidedly not a sports bar, unless you count billiards or biking. Out front, there’s a sign featuring an enormous gear and a vending machine selling spare inner tubes. The backyard has communal grills for customer barbecues in warm weather. The inside is sparsely decorated, and being a classic dive, contains only a couple of tiny televisions that are always on but no one pays much attention to. A regular game day will bring a mix of bike punks, New York soccer heads, and Germans on a pilgrimage to watch St. Pauli on a giant projector screen instead.
Ms. Roggenkamp, who works for the auction house Christie’s, was introduced to the cult of St. Pauli about five years ago when she was studying German through a private program. A classmate took her to watch a game at East River. Over the next year and a half, she slowly started to take on a leadership role in the supporters’ club. In keeping with the team’s philosophy, that typically involves passing a collection cup for charity during halftime. The ritual takes on an air of communion — a characterization that Ms. Roggenkamp agrees with.
“I was having a conversation about it with one of my friends the other day,” she said. “And he was like, ‘You talk about this as if it’s your church group.’”
Jah Jah Brown, half of the Brooklyn-based rap duo known as Ninjasonik, has been coming to watch games at East River Bar for the past six years because he’s enamored with the team’s politics. He said that German tourists regularly walk into the bar, which is typically full of bicycles, and have to ask, “Are we in the right spot?”
In fact, the bar is a bridge between the two nations. Mr. Paranya remembered being with a Turkish friend years ago and lamenting that he didn’t have a geographical allegiance to a soccer team as an American. The friend immediately pegged him as a would-be St. Pauli fan, though the comment was initially forgotten. Years later, he and his wife popped into East River Bar for a beer, where a game happened to be screening. After about five minutes, he realized who was playing. “I remembered that I was supposed to like these guys,” Mr. Paranya said. “By the end of the game I was singing all the songs and had purchased a T-shirt.” A few years later, he took a trip to Germany, which he described as a pretense to visit St. Pauli’s stadium. He wore his supporters shirt and made about “20 new best friends,” some of which he now sees occasionally when they come to visit the United States and make their obligatory trip to Williamsburg.
With about 10 minutes left in the game that Tuesday, the other team scored, though not many fans seemed to notice. When they sunk another goal and things seemed good and over, one of the Pirates’ organizers, Sören Thode, switched the broadcast to a YouTube video of the German entertainer Hans Albers’s ode about the Reeperbahn — the red-light district district of working-class Hamburg. People finished their beers and said their goodbyes until the next match on Monday afternoon, though they, of course, wouldn’t be watching until nightfall.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, has been offered a deal that includes paying a fine and doing community service in return for admitting that if his soliciting prostitution case were to go to trial, the prosecutors would win.
The prosecutors in Palm Beach County, Fla., offered the deal to Mr. Kraft and 24 other men who last month were arrested on misdemeanor charges of buying sex at the Orchids of Asia day spa in Jupiter, Fla.
The police and prosecutors say the massage parlor is the focus of a wider investigation into human sex trafficking in several counties in Florida. Mr. Kraft — who faces two misdemeanor counts — and the other 24 men have been charged only with soliciting prostitution; they have not been charged with any crimes in connection to sex trafficking.
News of the plea offer was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
The investigation into sex trafficking is still continuing, said Mike Edmondson, a spokesman for the state attorney’s office in Palm Beach County.
The offers were sent to all 25 men on Tuesday. It is unclear how many of them will agree to the terms, particularly the provision that requires them to admit that prosecutors would win their case if it went to trial.
Dave Aronberg, the state attorney for Palm Beach County, said on Twitter that “the offer of a deferred prosecution agreement with several conditions to first-time offenders is standard in cases like this.”
Mr. Kraft pleaded not guilty. He is scheduled to appear in front of a judge on March 28, though he may be represented in absentia by his lawyer.
As a first-time offender with no criminal record, Mr. Kraft is unlikely to spend any time in jail.
Misdemeanors for soliciting prostitution rarely generate headlines. But the involvement of one of the most powerful owners in the N.F.L. has turned what was a local story into an international spectacle. It has also shined a light on the problem of human sex trafficking, even though Mr. Kraft has not been accused of any involvement in that part of the investigation.
Some lawmakers in Washington, including Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, said they intended to take the campaign donations they received from Mr. Kraft, as well as John W. Childs, another billionaire facing similar misdemeanor charges, and donate the money to groups focused on ending human trafficking, according to The Boston Globe.
Survivors of sexual exploitation are also planning to send a letter to the N.F.L. before the league’s annual meeting next week in Phoenix. In the letter, several dozen organizations and advocates against sexual exploitation will ask the N.F.L. to bar Mr. Kraft from owning his team.
That would be a drastic step for the N.F.L. to take. The league’s constitution gives Commissioner Roger Goodell broad powers to fine or suspend owners for conduct deemed detrimental to the league. In the past, owners have been fined $500,000 or more, and been suspended for as long as a year. Most of those cases have involved felony charges, not misdemeanors.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — An attorney for Patriots owner Robert Kraft said Friday that the public release of video evidence in the prostitution solicitation case against him would invade his privacy and jeopardize his right to a fair trial.
William Burck told a Palm Beach County judge that releasing the video would only satisfy a "prurient interest," during a hearing held in part to determine whether media outlets could offer arguments in the case.
Jupiter police obtained a search warrant to secretly record at the Orchids of Asia Day Spa in Jupiter, Florida. Police say those cameras captured Kraft twice paying to have sex with spa employees in January. Kraft was charged with two counts of solicitation as part of a multicounty investigation that also resulted in about 300 male customers being charged, 10 massage parlors being closed and their owners charged with felony prostitution.
Investigators initially said they were targeting human traffickers. But Assistant State Attorney Greg Kridos told the judge Friday that there was no evidence of human trafficking at the Jupiter spa.
Burck said the previously highly publicized allegations of human trafficking by both police and State Attorney Dave Aronberg had amounted to "politicking" and that they added to potential harm to Kraft's privacy in releasing video evidence.
Attorneys for media outlets say redacted versions of the video evidence should be released on public interest grounds, and Judge Leonard Hanser said Friday that he would grant their motion to intervene in the case.
He gave parties a deadline of Tuesday to submit additional documents.
Kraft's attorneys say the videos are an illegal invasion of privacy and are not necessary to be released publicly because the affidavits describe the acts that took place. They are seeking a motion to suppress the videos, arguing they also would mar chances for a fair trial.
Jose Martinez had four hits and Matt Wieters drove in three runs as the St. Louis Cardinals completed a four-game sweep of the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers with an 11-7 victory Thursday afternoon.
It was the Cardinals' first four-game sweep of the Dodgers in St. Louis since July 15-18, 2010.
Harrison Bader was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded twice in the game as the Cardinals reached their season high in runs scored without hitting a home run. It was just the fourth time since 1974 that a batter was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded twice in a game.
Enrique Hernandez hit a home run for the Dodgers, as did former Cardinal David Freese and starting pitcher Walker Buehler, but Los Angeles twice gave up three-run leads. It was a far better day at the plate than on the mound for Buehler, who yielded five runs on five hits over four innings.
Red Sox 7, Blue Jays 6
Rafael Devers singled with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning to lead host Boston to a much-needed win over Toronto.
Mitch Moreland, who homered earlier in the game to erase the last bit of a 5-0 deficit, tied it again in the ninth with a one-out double to drive in Mookie Betts. Xander Bogaerts walked, and Devers chipped his single past the infield as the Red Sox picked up their first home win.
Freddy Galvis had given the Blue Jays a 6-5 lead in the top of the eighth with a solo home run, his fourth hit of the game. Toronto fell for the eighth time in its past 10 games. Ken Giles (0-1) took the loss, snapping his run of 34 consecutive saves without a blown opportunity.
Mets 6, Braves 3
Amed Rosario gave New York a lead it would never relinquish with a three-run homer in the second inning, and he finished with a career-high four RBIs as the Mets won at Atlanta in the opener of a four-game series.
Rosario added an RBI single in the sixth. The 23-year-old shortstop has reached base safely in 11 of team team's first 12 games this season. Hot-hitting rookie Pete Alonso launched a long two-run homer in the seventh for the Mets. Alonso has six homers and 17 RBIs in his first 12 big league games.
The Braves saw their three-game winning streak snapped despite getting two-run homers from Ronald Acuna Jr. and Johan Camargo. Acuna finished with three hits while Tyler Flowers had two. Ozzie Albies, who signed a seven-year contract extension earlier Thursday, went 0-for-5.
Cubs 2, Pirates 0
Jose Quintana struck out 11 batters in seven scoreless innings, and Chicago Cubs held on over visiting Pittsburgh.
Quintana (1-1) notched his 13th career start with double-digit strikeouts. He scattered four hits and walked one as Chicago earned its first series victory of the season. Daniel Descalso and Victor Caratini each drove in a run for the Cubs.
Pittsburgh failed to cross the plate for the second time in three games. Adam Frazier led the Pirates with two hits.
Indians 4, Tigers 0
Leonys Martin went 3-for-4 with a home run, two RBIs and two runs against his former team to lead visiting Cleveland to a shutout of Detroit in the rubber match of a three-game series.
Martin, who was traded from the Tigers to the Indians last year before surviving a life-threatening infection, finished the series with two home runs, five hits and three walks to help the Indians take two of the three games.
Indians starter Shane Bieber (1-0) struck out six, walked one and allowed just three hits in seven innings. It was the third time this season that the Tigers were shut out. Spencer Turnbull (0-2) took the loss, allowing three runs and eight hits in four innings.
A's 8, Orioles 5
Khris Davis homered twice for the second consecutive day, and Oakland banged out five homers for a second straight game in beating host Baltimore.
Davis, who now has an major-league-leading nine homers this season, became the first Oakland player to have back-to-back multi-homer games since Josh Reddick on Aug. 9-10, 2013. The A's won three games and went deep 14 times in the four-game set to snap out of an early-season slump.
Baltimore's Chris Davis flied out in his first at-bat to extend his streak to 58 consecutive hitless plate appearances, breaking the major league record held by Cleveland's Tony Bernazard since 1984. Davis finished 0-for-3 with a walk, extending his slump to 53 hitless at-bats.
Mariners 7, Royals 6 (10 innings)
Daniel Vogelbach homered in the top of the 10th inning to lift Seattle to a victory at Kansas City.
The Royals led 6-4 and were within one out of snapping their nine-game losing streak, but Mitch Haniger tripled off the wall in center to tie the game. Kansas City not only lost its 10th straight, but it lost center fielder Billy Hamilton to injury after he collided with the wall on Haniger's triple and left the field on a cart.
The Royals' losing streak goes on, but Whit Merrifield's franchise-record hitting streak was snapped at 31 games after an 0-for-6 day. Brandon Brennan (1-0) pitched the ninth for his first career win for Seattle. Connor Sadzeck picked up his first career save. Glenn Sparkman (0-1) took the loss for Kansas City.
Reds 5, Marlins 0
Eugenio Suarez went 3-for-4 with a homer and two RBIs to lead host Cincinnati over Miami.
Yasiel Puig, in his first game back from a two-game suspension, also drove in two runs. Puig, who had been suspended by Major League Baseball for his role in an altercation with the Pittsburgh Pirates, helped the Reds complete a three-game sweep over the Marlins.
Cincinnati held Miami to just one run in the three games. Reds starting pitcher Sonny Gray pitched four scoreless innings but got a no-decision after he was forced to leave the game due to a left calf contusion. Marlins rookie Pablo Lopez (1-2) gave up four runs in 4 2/3 innings.
Giants 1, Rockies 0
Jeff Samardzija pitched seven shutout innings, and Kevin Pillar produced the only run with a leadoff home run in the seventh, sending San Francisco past visiting Colorado.
Samardzija (1-0) outdueled Jon Gray (0-3), who took a four-hit shutout in the seventh before serving up Pillar's third home run since joining the Giants in a trade last week.
Tony Watson worked a 1-2-3 eighth inning for the Giants before closer Will Smith recorded his fourth save with a perfect ninth. The win was the Giants' second in their past three games. They have lost all four series they've played so far this season.
Padres 7, Diamondbacks 6
Pedro Avila worked into the sixth inning in his major league debut, Manuel Margot hit a tiebreaking home run in the eighth, and San Diego beat Arizona in Phoenix.
Avila, a 22-year-old Venezuelan who had made one career start above the high Class-A level, allowed one run and four hits in 5 1/3 innings. He struck out five and walked two.
Margot jumped on a 96 mph fastball from Archie Bradley (0-1) with two outs in the eighth inning for his first home run of the season, a deep shot to center field to break a 6-6 tie. Craig Stammen (1-0) got the final out of the seventh for the win, and Trey Wingenter earned his first career save.
--Field Level Media
“I don’t think anything would stop me. And certainly not a wall.”
OSMAN NOE GUILLÉN, who traveled to Mexico’s northern border with his wife, fleeing economic hardship in Honduras. They plan to pay smugglers to take them to Texas.
MCALLEN, Tex. — She trembled as she sat on the witness stand. She kept her head down and avoided looking at the man at the defense table only a few feet away.
In the blue-carpeted courtroom in the Texas border city of McAllen, she was identified only by her initials, M.M.U.T. She had come from Honduras, she told the court, and the smugglers who helped her cross the border had placed her with about a dozen other migrants at a stash house near McAllen. The man in charge was known as El Gordo — the Fat One.
When one of the migrant women escaped one morning, El Gordo forced M.M.U.T. to go with him in his truck to search for her, she testified. He drove her to an unoccupied trailer some distance away.
“He raped me,” she said.
It was a small, nearly whispered moment one day in 2017 in one of the busiest federal courthouses on the southwest border. It was also a #MeToo moment for a category of women whose long history of sexual assault has gone largely unpunished for decades. Undocumented women rarely get the chance to face their accused rapists in court. Attacks are most often never reported, and if they are, the perpetrators are often never found.
[Read: The Hidden Nightmare of Sexual Violence on the Border]
This case was different. The woman had agreed to testify, and the man she said attacked her was in custody, facing sentencing on a different charge: Adan Hernandez-Nunez sat facing his accuser in court.
One other thing was different: The federal judge hearing the case was a native of the Texas border region, a woman, and the daughter of migrant farmworkers.
“I wanted more than anything else for her to feel that the court had listened to her as a human being,” Judge Micaela Alvarez said later, in an interview.
The federal prosecutor, Alexandro Benavides, urged M.M.U.T. to go on with her story. “While that was happening, did he tell you anything?” he asked.
“He told me that if I ever said this, that he would kill me,” she said.
She stopped talking. “I’m afraid,” she said softly.
[Read the Newsletter: Yes, There Was Duct Tape: The Harrowing Journeys of Migrants Across the Border. Sign up for Crossing the Border here]
Judge Alvarez reassured the witness that federal marshals were in the courtroom to keep everyone safe.
This judge had seen several cases like this. Before being nominated to the bench in Texas’ Southern District by President George W. Bush in 2004, Judge Alvarez had been a social worker for the state’s Child Protective Services. She is a native of the nearby border town of Donna and, out of hundreds of federal judges around the country, one of only 29 Latinas on the federal bench.
“You can take as much time as you need,” Judge Alvarez told the witness. “I can assure you that you are safe here.”
When the witness was ready, Mr. Benavides, the prosecutor, asked her if she saw the man she knew as El Gordo in the courtroom.
“That’s him,” she said as she pointed at Mr. Hernandez-Nunez.
And then she said, again, “I’m afraid.”
She began crying. Judge Alvarez stepped down from the bench, walked to the witness stand and crouched down next to her. She called Mr. Hernandez-Nunez’s lawyer over so he could hear.
She said later that it was the first time in her 14 years as a federal judge that she had left the bench to console a witness.
Mr. Hernandez-Nunez had already pleaded guilty to harboring an undocumented alien and was headed to federal prison; the question at the sentencing hearing that day was for how long.
Prosecutors hoped for a stiff sentence because of the rape accusation. But Mr. Hernandez-Nunez, now 32, denied the attack, and investigators were unable to locate either the stash house where M.M.U.T. said she was held, or the trailer where she said the rape occurred.
Norman E. McInnis, the federal public defender, reminded the judge that investigators had declined to pursue sexual assault charges against his client in state court. “If they really felt like this was injustice, then they could have pursued other charges,” he said.
Judge Alvarez, having heard the arguments from both sides, started speaking. She found the victim to be credible, she said. And she said the woman was not alone — she had seen a number of migrant women coming forward lately with allegations of sexual assault, beginning to break a silence that has long been part of the price of crossing illegally into the United States.
“I don’t know if it was because those instances have increased, or maybe the victims are more willing to step forward now because, you know, they’ve lost some of that fear,” she said in the courtroom. “Certainly the victim here, you know, demonstrated a lot of fear.”
Judge Alvarez said she found the penalty recommended under the federal sentencing guidelines, about two and a half years, to be too short. She sentenced him to four.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. 
Venezuela’s opposition looks for its next move, “Green Book” wins the Oscar for best picture and socialism rises among Britain’s millennials. Here’s the latest: 

At least four people died over the weekend in clashes as Venezuela’s opposition movement tried to clear the way for humanitarian aid to enter the country.
Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader who declared himself the legitimate president last month, promised an “aid avalanche” that never arrived. The Venezuela National Guard fired tear gas and live ammunition at protesters on the borders with Colombia and Brazil. Just one aid truck made it through. 
Hoping to break President Nicolás Maduro’s blockade and hasten his downfall, the opposition instead found his image damaged by the violence but his hold on the military firm, leaving them to grasp for a Plan B.
What next? Mr. Maduro severed diplomatic ties with Colombia, ordering his country’s envoys to leave within 24 hours.
Mr. Guaidó and the U.S. vice president, Mike Pence, are scheduled to meet with the Lima Group of Latin American nations today to discuss new ways to pressure Mr. Maduro. The opposition has been talking more about the possibility of foreign military intervention.
The North Korean leader Kim Jong-un is en route to Vietnam, where he will meet with President Trump on Wednesday to discuss the North’s nuclear weapons program.
Mr. Kim has chosen a vintage mode of travel: a train journey south through China, followed by a winding, mountainous road trip to Hanoi. 
The U.S. perspective: The discussions in Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam, will be a major test of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s leadership. He must prevent Mr. Trump from giving away any leverage the U.S. has over North Korea, while remaining in the president’s good graces.
Goals: After the last summit meeting, Mr. Trump declared that “there is no longer a nuclear threat” from North Korea, an assessment U.S. intelligence agencies rejected. This time, the U.S. is trying to extract a timetable for denuclearization.
Britons who came of age in the wake of the global financial crisis of 2008 will, in many cases, be worse off than their parents. Raised under austerity, angry at losing the huge state benefits their elders enjoyed, burdened with student debt and seeing few prospects for advancement, many millennials are turning to socialism, fracturing the Labour Party along generational lines between renewed radicalism and an older centrism in retreat.
Alex McIntyre, 19, was raised on budget cuts. A university student with big debt and precarious employment, he has gone on strike, dived into trade unionism and joined the young left in Brighton, a university town of anticapitalist workshops, “red gyms” and rent strikes whose spirit is embodied by Jeremy Corbyn, Labour’s socialist leader.
Go deeper: Here is a guide to Britain’s austerity program, introduced in 2010, and its profound effects, including cuts to the police that many police leaders say have led to rising crime.
In other British news: Brexit is stirring up old resentments in Ireland against its former colonial master. No country stands to lose more than Ireland from a messy departure, especially if unresolved questions over the status of the border with Northern Ireland tear at the Good Friday peace agreement of 1998. 
Hollywood’s stars gathered for the 91st Academy Awards in Los Angeles, this year without a host. 
Rami Malek won best actor for “Bohemian Rhapsody,” and Olivia Coleman took best actress for “The Favourite.” (We have the story behind her gown.) Alfonso Cuarón won best director for “Roma.” And defying our predictions, “Green Book” won for best picture.
Here’s a complete list of winners, and our live chat and commentary.
The red carpet: Our columnist talked to stars and moviemakers, and here are the photos. Despite the Oscars suffering diminished ratings and a general loss of cultural traction, our critic saw a red carpet that was surprisingly diverse and welcoming. And it was also gender fluid.
The Vatican: Pope Francis, closing a landmark meeting on clerical sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church, called for “an all-out battle against the abuse of minors” but didn’t offer the concrete policies demanded by many of the faithful.
Israel: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, his future imperiled by prosecutors and political challengers alike, has enraged Jewish leaders in Israel and the U.S. by making a pact with a racist anti-Arab party whose ideology was likened by one influential rabbi to Nazism.  
Trade war: President Trump delayed his own March 1 deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods, citing “substantial progress” in talks, though few details have been released.
India-Pakistan: Seven decades after the British divided India to create Pakistan, the first museum devoted to the chaos that followed — mass migration, murders, riots and rapes — opened in Amritsar, a city near the border. Curating its exhibits was fraught with risks.
Afghanistan: A U.N. report shows that 2018 was the single deadliest year for civilians in the war-torn country, with children dying in record numbers, and  24 percent of casualties attributed to Afghan and American forces. Meanwhile, the Taliban’s deputy leader arrived in Qatar for what could be the highest-level negotiations yet with American diplomats on ending the Afghan war.
Sex trafficking: A vast investigation in Florida and New York uncovered a multimillion-dollar prostitution operation in which women who the police believe were brought from China on false promises of jobs were trapped in brothels sometimes visited by the rich and famous.
Switzerland: A former Swiss soldier was found guilty of violating Swiss neutrality by fighting against jihadist forces in Syria. Hanna Johannes Cosar was fined for commanding a private army whose aim was to defend Syriacs, one of the world’s oldest Christian communities, against Islamic State forces.
R. Kelly: The R&B singer was charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse involving four women, three of whom had been minors at the time. He resolved earlier such cases with nondisclosure agreements, but his actions have come under fresh scrutiny after BuzzFeed and a recent documentary reported on his apparent sex cult.
Charles Dickens: The famed novelist and journalist not only sought to banish his wife of two decades, Catherine, after their separation in 1858 but also tried to have her imprisoned in an asylum, according to newly revealed letters.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: This creamy turmeric pasta uses mostly pantry staples.
Digital wellness: Are you addicted to your smartphone? Our tech columnist decided to kick his habit. Here’s how he did it.
Remodeling? Software, like free floor-plan apps and augmented-reality tools, could help you sketch out your ideas.
One edition of our Friday Morning Briefing included a photograph of the actor Sidney Poitier standing in front of the Apollo Theater and said that he was in Midtown Manhattan.
Sharp-eyed readers asked whether we didn’t mean Harlem, where the storied theater on 125th Street has been a cultural institution for the African-American community in New York City and beyond for 85 years.
But there was also an Apollo Theater on 42nd Street. The Times reviewed its opening production in 1920, a musical comedy called “Jimmie.”
The Apollo in the picture with Mr. Poitier fell into disrepair but reopened in 1979 as the New Apollo, to differentiate it from the one uptown. It was demolished in 1996, and the Lyric Theater, currently home to “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child,” stands in its place.
There’s also an Apollo Theater in London. Why such a popular name? Apollo was the Greek god of music and poetry.
Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
ATHENS — Our next location is a mere 100 steps from where I’m writing these essays. I pass it every day on my way to and from the library. It is the Monument of Lysicrates, built around 334 B.C.E., just about the time Aristotle returned to Athens to found his Lyceum. I always pause there, take in the view and watch the many seemingly well-fed and contented cats scattered around the place. If you let your eyes drift up from the monument, your vision is seized by the vast sacred rock of the Acropolis. It is skin-pinchingly sublime.
Indeed, New Yorkers might experience a feeling of déjà vu or double vision with this monument because you can find not one, but two copies of it atop the San Remo apartment building on Central Park West, just north of the Dakota, where John Lennon lived and died. The monument was also widely copied elsewhere.
The original Monument of Lysicrates is composed of a 9.5-foot-square limestone foundation topped with a 13-foot-high cylindrical edifice. There are six Corinthian columns, thought to be the earliest surviving examples of that style, made from marble from Mount Pentelicus, about 15 miles northeast of Athens. These support a sculpture divided into three bands that carry an inscription commemorating Lysicrates — a wealthy patron of the arts of whom little else is known — and a frieze depicting the adventures of the god Dionysus and some pirates whom he transformed into dolphins. The god sits caressing a panther as some satyrs serve him wine, while others, with torches and clubs, drive the pirates into the sea.
Above is a shallow dome which is the base for three rather mutilated scrolls in the shape of acanthus leaves that stand about three feet high. This was designed to hold a large bronze trophy or “tripod,” which has long since disappeared. To my eyes, what remains resembles a rather lovely, large broken flower vase.
What does this all mean? And why is it important?
The monument is a trophy to commemorate Lysicrates’ triumph in the dramatic contest, or agon, of the world’s first theater festival: The City or Great Dionysia, first established in Athens deep in the sixth century B.C.E. As with theater and opera today, there was patronage of the arts in classical Athens. To be asked to perform a tragedy was, in ancient Greek, to be granted a chorus. Tragedians were sponsored by a choregos, a chorus bringer, a wealthy or important Athenian citizen, who would recruit choristers and pay for everything: This was Lysicrates. 
We do not know how tragic poets and choregoi were matched. But the oldest piece of theater that we possess, “The Persians” by Aeschylus from 472 B.C.E., was sponsored by the young Pericles, the great champion of Athenian democracy. When a tragic tetralogy won (that’s three plays, plus a satyr play, where the preceding dramas would be openly ridiculed), then the sponsor and not the playwright was declared the victor and a memorial or trophy was erected to display the bronze tripod of the winning choregos. These were displayed in the Hodos Tripodon, or Street of the Tripods.
The street still bears this name. It would once have been littered with tripods, but all except for that of Lysicrates have now disappeared. The City Dionysia began with a procession along this street, with all the citizens, foreigners, visiting dignitaries and choregoi dressed in their finery. At the front of the procession, a wooden effigy of Dionysus was carried aloft. The Dionysus that was honored at the festival was the local patron god of Eleutherae, a village on the border between Attica and the neighboring region of Boeotia. But the place name also recalls the Greek word for freedom, eleutheria, and the link between the theater festival and experience of liberation would have been hard to miss.
So, let’s liberate our minds for a moment and imagine that you and I could take a walk right now together along the Street of the Tripods. We could follow the road as it extends eastward from the agora of the ancient city and then bends around the southeast corner of the Acropolis. We might pass clusters of slow-moving tourists and groups of schoolchildren, past the bars and tavernas vying for custom on a slow winter’s afternoon, past Lulu’s Bakery and Deli, and perhaps stopping — in honor of Dionysus, god of the vine and intoxication — for a glass of overpriced and rather routine red wine from Diogenes Patisserie (the locals call the monument the Lamp of Diogenes, alluding to the light that the first of the Cynics was reputed to carry in order to try to find an honest man in Athens).
Then we could set down our glasses, leave the patisserie, and make a sharp right and ascend the steep steps of the narrow Hodos Epimenidou, named after Epimenides, source of the famous liar paradox. We might see a pair of young lovers lost in an embrace, and two old gentlemen distractedly gambling with scratch cards. But then, at the top of the steps, we would find ourselves directly facing the sweeping south slope of the Acropolis. Spreading out before us is the Theater of Dionysus.
It was here, and nowhere else, that theater began almost three millenniums ago. I find this thought a continuous source of astonishment. It was here that possibly around 14,000 people sat in late March or early April each year and watched plays all day, including the 31 tragedies by Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides that survive.
It is tempting to lose oneself, like the young Nietzsche, in Dionysian revelry. And it is always nice to take a walk. But it is also crucially important to remember that the City Dionysia was one of the key institutions in that astonishing Athenian political invention that Nietzsche detested: democracy. The first reference to democratic assembly voting procedure occurs in Aeschylus’ early tragedy “The Suppliant Maidens,” from 470 B.C.E.
But ancient tragedy is not just a celebration or vindication of democracy or Athenian glory (although Athens does come off quite well in some of the plays). Rather, theater is the place where the tensions, conflicts and ambiguities of democratic life are played out in front of the people. It is the place where those excluded from Athenian democracy are presented on stage: foreigners, women and slaves. Theater is the night kitchen of democracy.
Let’s return to our monument. In June 2016, the Greek press reported that the Monument of Lysicrates had been daubed with graffiti by “anarchists.” The green spray-painted uppercase lettering read, “Your Greek monuments are concentration camps for immigrants.” A little extreme, perhaps, but I was intrigued. Although the offending words were quickly removed, when I looked closely in clear sunlight last weekend, the words were still partly legible.
Rather than simply be outraged, I suggest we think about these words. If ancient monuments simply serve some ideology of Hellenism that is then identified with the defense of the Greek state against immigrants, or Fortress Europe against the infidel hordes, then I think we are misunderstanding something very significant about ancient Athens in general and tragedy in particular.
Consider the Aeschylus play I mentioned above, “The Suppliant Maidens.” The plot is very simple: A group of some 50 women from Egypt seek refuge in Argos in Greece to avoid being forced into marriage to an equal number of young Egyptian men. The women, called the Danaids, claim refuge on the basis of their ethnicity, their bloodline, which they insist is Greek. 
Their father, Danaus, says to King Theseus, “Everyone is quick to blame the alien/Who bears the brunt of every evil tongue.” But Theseus insists that even if the maidens can prove their Greek ancestry, this is entirely irrelevant to whether they can be admitted into the city, which is something that has to be debated and decided in a democratic vote. In this play, ethnic claims to blood legitimacy are subordinated to democratic procedure and the due process of law.
Questions of refuge, asylum seeking, immigration, sexual violence and the duties of hospitality to the foreigner reverberate across so many of the tragedies. Theater is that political mechanism through which questions of democratic inclusion are ferociously negotiated and where the world of myth collides with law. Think of “Antigone,” a play about rival claims to the meaning of law, or nomos. Or the Oresteia trilogy, whose theme is the nature of justice and which even ends up in a law court on the Areopagus, the Hill of Ares just next to the Acropolis. Tragedy does not present us with a theory of justice or law, but with a dramatic experience of justice as conflict and law as contest.
To be sure, classical Athens was a patriarchal, imperialist society based on slaveholding. Yet the figures who are silenced in the public realm are represented in the fictions of the theater, as if the democracy that was denied to those figures publicly is somehow extended to them theatrically. As the classicist Edith Hall rightly writes, tragedy is polyphonic: It both legitimizes the chauvinism of Athenian power and glory at the same time as giving voice to that which undermines it.
If we fail to understand the polyphony of antiquity, then we also might be tempted to pick up a can of spray paint and begin daubing monuments with graffiti.
(Reuters) - Nearly five dozen people were arrested in a Minnesota undercover sting operation for attempting to meet up with children for sex or for sex-trafficking of minors during last weekend's NCAA Final Four basketball tournament, authorities said on Wednesday. 
Undercover agents from dozens of agencies in Minnesota spent Friday through Monday posing as children or sex buyers on various social media platforms. The agents chatted with suspects online and then arrested them when they arrived at an arranged meeting place for an encounter, the Minnesota Department of Public Safety said in a statement.
A total of 58 suspects were taken into custody, while 28 victims, including one minor, were rescued from trafficking situations, the department said. 
The suspects were not part of a single sex-trafficking ring, said Jill Oliveira, a spokeswoman for the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension with the Department of Public Safety.
"These were separate instances where they either responded to undercover officers posing as sex buyers or undercover officers posing as minors," Oliveira said in a phone interview. 
The sting operation occurred as ten of thousands of fans converged on Minneapolis for the semifinals and final of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's men's basketball championship, won this year by the University of Virginia.
Some 47 people face felony charges of solicitation of a minor or solicitation of prostitution with someone under 16 years of age. Another 11 were booked on probable cause of sex trafficking and promotion of prostitution, the agency said. 
"This operation is an example of the aggressive steps necessary to stop traffickers and johns who buy and sell people for sex in our communities," said Drew Evans, superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.
It involved more than 33 local and state agencies along with Homeland Security Investigations, a unit of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 
Most of the suspects were from the greater Twin Cities area, the state department of public safety said, referring to Minneapolis and Saint Paul.
Authorities routinely conduct sting operations coinciding with large U.S. sporting events. During the week leading up to this year's Super Bowl in Atlanta, authorities arrested 169 people in a sex-trafficking sting. 
The Minnesota sting comes less than two months after New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft was charged with soliciting sex as part of an investigation into sex trafficking at several Florida day spas. Kraft, who has pleaded not guilty, was one of 25 men who were taken into custody in the sting.
More than 5,100 cases of human trafficking were reported to the National Human Trafficking Hotline in 2018. That amounted to 40 percent fewer cases than the 8,500 reported in 2017, which was a five-year high, the organization said. 
 (Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee and Gabriella Borter in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler and Bill Berkrot)
HONG KONG — It was after dark on a Tuesday evening in December 2017 when the vans pulled onto Island House Lane, a placid side street of residential complexes and community garden plots in the suburban Tai Po district. 
High-rises gave way to lush forest as the street wound down to a pebble beach. Across the harbor was Tolo Channel, and jagged green hills descending into the sea all the way to the coast of China’s Guangdong province. 
On the water, a speedboat was waiting. Men began unloading the vans’ cargo onto the beach.
When officers from Hong Kong’s Customs and Excise Department arrived, the boats fled out to sea. Marine officers pursued them for two hours before losing them in the channel’s warren of rocky coves and mangrove estuaries. 
From the vans, however, officers were able to recover part of the contraband cargo. 
There were about $1 million worth of mobile phones, digital cameras and tablets. And, packed into cardboard boxes, the agents discovered more than 300 kilograms of smooth brown scales, each a couple inches across, that looked like they had been stripped from some prehistoric reptile.
In fact, they came from pangolins: a housecat-sized, forest-dwelling mammal that resembles an armor-clad anteater. Pangolin meat is a delicacy in southern China, where it is critically endangered, and its scales are prized as an ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine. 
Over the past decade, the animal has been hunted out of most of its range in Southeast Asia, and it is being poached at alarming levels in Central Africa. The pangolin’s value has increased with its rarity — the shipment seized in Tai Po had a street value of around $300,000.
In the geography of the illegal wildlife trade, Hong Kong occupies a unique and essential position. It is a city that has built its reputation and economy as a frictionless connector of countries and capital, located on the doorstep of mainland China — the most ravenous wildlife market in the world. 
Over the past decade, the appetites of segments of the booming Chinese middle and upper class — for jewelry, artwork, traditional (though often scientifically uncreditable) remedies and exotic foods — have dramatically expanded a global wildlife black market that has decimated species in Africa, Southeast Asia and elsewhere. 
The pangolin is the latest casualty: Four of the eight species are now endangered, and the international trade in pangolin products has been banned since 2016.
Researchers at the ADM Capital Foundation, a Hong Kong-based organization focused on environmental issues, recently analyzed data on seizures of wildlife products from the Customs and Excise Department.
In a report published last month by the Hong Kong Wildlife Trade Working Group, a consortium that includes the foundation, the researchers found that the territory accounted for more pangolin seizures than any country. 
Between 2013 and 2017, Hong Kong seized 43 metric tons of pangolin scales and carcasses — representing tens of thousands of animals — in shipments arriving from six countries, principally Cameroon and Nigeria. 
The amount intercepted between 2013 and 2015 alone is equivalent to 45 percent of all the pangolin products seized worldwide between 2007 and 2015, according to the most recent figures from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.
Although the data analyzed by the foundation does not include 2018, pangolin seizures nearly doubled from 2017 to 2018. In January 2019, Hong Kong authorities intercepted the territory’s largest-ever shipment of pangolin scales, nine tons in all, on a cargo ship bound to Vietnam from Nigeria.
The pangolin products appear to have been mostly destined for mainland China — though they are not hard to find in Hong Kong, either. On the well-trafficked Queen’s Road in the Sheung Wan district, the clerk at one small shop, presiding over a counter piled with dried goji berries, almonds and mung beans, readily offered pangolin scales to an inquiring customer.
“We sell a lot, and we’ve been doing this business for a long time,” she said. One liang — a Chinese measure equal in Hong Kong to about 37.5 grams — retailed for 300 Hong Kong dollars, about $38. “It’s quite luxurious,” she said. 
While the shop was careful not to keep the product on the premises, she said that with a phone call it could be delivered in half an hour, and getting it across the border undetected was easy. 
“We’ll just grind it into powder,” she said. In order to avoid getting caught, she advised, “don’t get too much at one time.”
[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]
In recent years, as alarm has grown about both the ecological consequences of the illegal wildlife trade and its links to other forms of crime and security threats, many countries have significantly stepped up their response, stiffening laws and increasing the resources dedicated to enforcing them. 
In the United States, wildlife trafficking is now often prosecuted under muscular organized-crime statutes. The U.N. describes the trade in wildlife as “one of the largest transnational organized criminal activities.”
Hong Kong stands out against this trend, conservationists here charge. While other countries with the political and law-enforcement capacity to fight wildlife trafficking have begun to do so, the territory’s government — which is otherwise relatively aggressive in combating corruption, organized crime and other ills — has appeared reluctant to follow suit, even as an enormous share of the illegal trade passes through the territory’s airport and shipping terminals.
The territory’s Customs and Excise Department estimates the wildlife contraband it has seized over the past five years — by value, principally pangolin, elephant ivory and timber — to be worth more than $71 million, a figure that suggests the possibility of a billion-dollar illicit industry. 
But environment and law-enforcement officials routinely reject the notion that these seizures suggest the existence of serious criminal enterprises. “We do not have very strong evidence that organized crime is organizing” the Hong Kong wildlife trade, said Tse Chin-wan, Hong Kong’s under secretary for the environment, in an interview in August.
Fewer than 20 percent of the seizures of pangolin products that A.D.M.C.F. identified resulted in prosecutions. (According to the Customs and Excise Department, no charges have been filed yet in the speedboat smuggling case in December 2017.) Cases involving ivory — the largest segment of Hong Kong’s illegal wildlife seizures by value, with $26.3 million worth seized from 2013 to 2017 — were more likely to be prosecuted. 
But arrests were rarely made above the level of the individual couriers, known as “ant smugglers,” who were caught red-handed at the airport and generally received little more than a few weeks in prison and modest fines.
The official reluctance to crack down on the illegal wildlife trade is explained in part by the territory’s long history as perhaps the world’s premier entrepôt for legal wildlife products. The city is culturally and physically adjacent to Guangdong province, a center of traditional Chinese medicine and ivory craftsmanship for centuries, where the consumption of wildlife for food is also deeply ingrained. 
Hong Kong is also close to Fujian province, a coastal region famous for its carving industry, where many illegal wildlife products — rhinoceros horn, helmeted hornbill crests, rosewood — are turned into high-end jewelry, knickknacks and statuary for the Chinese market.
Hong Kong’s century as a British territory gave it connections to merchants in the former African colonies who traded in elephant ivory, rhinoceros horn and animal skins prized by consumers around the world. The city was the center of the international ivory trade until it was banned in 1989, importing as much as 700 tons of tusks from Africa annually at its 1970s peak.
For years, Hong Kong has been a leading importer and exporter of shark fins — a popular soup ingredient in Cantonese cuisine. By the most recent available statistics, the territory leads the world in imports of live fish and reptiles. 
Much of this legal trade is visible in neighborhoods like the commercial district of Sheung Wan, where storefronts crammed with dried sea horses and birds’ nests crowd the street beneath billboards of the Kardashians.
Conservationists charge that this legal commerce complicates efforts to tackle Hong Kong’s role as a key node in the global illegal trade. Once they are skinned and dried for sale, the fins of the endangered scalloped hammerhead shark, for instance, are almost impossible to distinguish from the fins of legally caught blue sharks in Hong Kong’s seafood shops. 
Among the dried fish swim bladders — also a popular soup ingredient — hanging in the same shop windows, it is similarly difficult to distinguish the sustainably caught species from the swim bladders of the totoaba, a critically endangered fish whose illegal harvest off the Pacific Coast of Mexico has also pushed the vaquita, a porpoise that is often caught in fishing nets, to the edge of extinction.
The massive growth of the shipping industry and global connectivity have made the markets for these species ruthlessly efficient and fast-moving. “I’m wondering, what’s the next species?” said Timothy C. Bonebrake, a biologist at the University of Hong Kong’s conservation forensics laboratory, which assists local law enforcement in analyzing wildlife contraband. 
“Is there a way you can be proactive about this and stop it before these things are all critically endangered? And certainly, in Hong Kong, we’re seeing there is always a new species, all the time.”
Efforts to patrol Hong Kong’s wildlife imports are also hampered by the sheer scale of commerce in a territory whose economy was built on unencumbered movement. 
Most of the seized pangolin scales have turned up in shipping containers in Hong Kong’s port, the fifth largest in the world, where inspecting more than a sliver of the nearly 21 million containers that pass through annually would be a herculean task. 
Ivory and rhino horn from Africa increasingly arrive through Hong Kong’s international airport, which leads the world in airfreight and is the eighth most-trafficked by passengers.
“We’re serious about enforcement and prosecution,” said Mr. Tse, the environment under secretary. “But we have to accept the reality that Hong Kong is a free port, and it offers a lot of opportunities for this kind of activity to happen. Every day we have tens of thousands of cargos going in and going out of the city.”
Mr. Tse argues that in the face of these daunting challenges, the best hope for reducing Hong Kong’s role in the illegal wildlife trade is reducing local consumer demand for legal products. He points to the territory’s consumption of shark fins, imports of which fell 50 percent between 2007 and 2017. 
“I think the community has begun to accept that if something is not good for the environment, it should be phased out,” he said. “The world is changing.”
Hong Kong has also made some moves to address its role as a wildlife-shopping destination for consumers from mainland China, where the appetite for wildlife products shows little sign of abating. 
In 2018, Hong Kong took the significant step of banning the sale of ivory, following similar moves by China and the United States two years before. It was a momentous change, and a recognition that while the city is important to the ivory trade, the ivory trade is no longer very important to the city or its residents. 
The busy Nathan Road shopping district, which was crammed with ivory shops as recently as the 1980s, is now mostly given over to outposts of international luxury brands. “There’s no reason why we have to focus on ivory here,” Mr. Tse said.
Since the international trade was banned in 1989, Hong Kong traders have been allowed to sell their stocks of pre-ban ivory — and for years, conservationists, citing that stockpile’s suspiciously slow depletion, argued that traders were using it to launder ivory from freshly killed elephants.
Some ivory sellers readily admit that such sleight-of-hand occurred, blaming unscrupulous traders while casting themselves as collateral damage in the struggle to contain the illegal wildlife trade. 
“Sly and dishonest businessmen, they make it difficult for us,” said Leung Shun-cheung, who with his sister, Leung Yun-tim, runs the Hang Cheong Ivory Factory, a small shop on Queen’s Road. “They use the smuggled ivory to fill the space in their quota for legal ivory. That’s how they did it. But we are innocent.”
On an early evening in August, Mr. Leung was crouched over a workbench in the shop, sanding a pair of ivory chopsticks he had carved, while Ms. Leung sorted through bills at a nearby desk. The bare fluorescent light bulbs illuminated dusty glass shelves packed full of ivory carvings, but no customers. 
“Because of the ban, we don’t have much business,” Ms. Leung said. “From time to time, the locals come here to buy a small piece.” She said that in three years, when the domestic ban goes into effect, they intended to close their shop, which their father opened before World War II.
Mr. Leung produced a sheaf of letters he had received from the Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department, advising him of the 2021 deadline and offering to enroll him in training for a new career. He was 72 years old, and had only ever worked in the ivory shop. 
“The government is asking me to retire at the age of 75,” he said, laughing grimly. “They’re very concerned about me.” 
He settled the chopsticks in a display case: two slender increments of supply awaiting a demand that remained vast, but for the moment, out of reach.
Reporting was contributed by Xiaomei Chen in Hong Kong. 
MEXICO CITY — People lined up for hours outside the federal court in Brooklyn last week for a chance to hear the jury instructions at the trial of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, known as El Chapo. On Tuesday, the jury handed out guilty verdicts on all counts, including conspiracy to murder and money laundering. During the trial, while American audiences were focused on the courtroom, the Mexican government held a news conference on forced disappearances south of the border. The figures were alarming. The two stories — of Mr. Guzman being tried in New York and the continuing bloody tragedy here in Mexico — are intrinsically connected.
Government officials said at the Feb. 4 news conference that Mexico has records of more than 40,000 people who have vanished, many in the areas where drug traffickers are strongest. Investigators have discovered 1,100 graves, and there are a stunning 26,000 corpses in public morgues that have not been identified. “This reveals the magnitude of the humanitarian crisis,” said Alejandro Encinas, Mexico’s under secretary for human rights. “Our territory has become a huge clandestine grave.”
Amid the details about Mr. Guzmán’s personal allure and venality presented during the three-month trial, it was easy to forget that his real significance was his position at the top of the Sinaloa drug cartel, one of the forces that plunged the nation into a painful armed conflict that has led to so many massacres, mass graves and refugees. 
The tales of Mr. Guzmán running naked through tunnels with his lover, the glamour of his beauty-queen wife coming dutifully to the court, the brutal murder of police informants, the inventiveness of smuggling cocaine in cans of chili pepper — it all made entertaining coverage. As a TV reporter mused to me in the Brooklyn courtroom, it all provided a certain light relief away from the divisive political climate that dominates American news.
But the focus on the individual can distract from the size of the crisis in Mexico. Tuesday’s verdict followed more than 200,000 murders over the past decade, a level of bloodshed that has ripped at the heart of the nation. More than 100 journalists have been slain, including my friend and colleague Javier Valdez Cárdenas, whom one of the witnesses against Mr. Guzmán was questioned about. An entire movement has grown of family members of those killed and disappeared, pushing to see the violence against their loved ones punished, or at least to find the bodies.
In the face of such slaughter, it is obviously good that Mr. Guzmán, a leader of one of the drug cartels involved, is convicted and is likely to spend the rest of his life in a tough prison. But considering this was the biggest trial to date related to Mexico’s catastrophic drug war, it seems only a bittersweet victory in the battle for justice.
It is a painful fact that Mr. Guzmán was convicted in the United States and not in Mexico, where he has sown corruption and terror. After he escaped from two top security prisons here, the Mexican government conceded that its institutions were not powerful enough to hold him and extradited him north. As a result the charges were mostly related to his trafficking drugs to Americans rather than murdering Mexicans.
In the trial, 14 fellow criminals testified against him, using the long-criticized system of cooperating witnesses. One of them, Juan Carlos Ramírez Abadía, alias Chupeta, confessed to ordering as many as 150 murders, mostly in his home country, Colombia, yet hoped to have his sentence reduced in return for his testimony. With audio recordings of Mr. Guzmán setting up drug deals, you have to question whether it was necessary for prosecutors to work with such hardened criminals.
“Lunatics, drug dealers, maniacs, given sweetheart deals,” the defense lawyer Jeffrey Lichtman said in his closing arguments. In rebuttal, the assistant United States attorney Amanda Liskamm said, “The day that cocaine conspiracies are made in heaven is the day we can call angels as witnesses.”
These witnesses spoke of bribes to Mexican officials, from the police and soldiers right up to former President Enrique Peña Nieto, who was accused of receiving $100 million. Tragically, this came as little surprise to people here in Mexico, where there have long been accusations of corruption at the very top.
Yet there is little hope they will lead to punishment. President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has said the Mexican government would need more solid evidence to go after Mr. Peña Nieto. “We can’t judge him if we don’t have proof,” he said. He has also said that going after former presidents could plunge the country into confrontation while he is trying to build unity.
Questions about the dubious practices of American agents were shut down by the prosecution and judge. The jurors were not allowed to hear about the so-called Fast and Furious debacle, in which agents watched as thousands of guns were trafficked south, including a .50-caliber rifle found in the last hide-out of Mr. Guzmán. Or about the cooperating witness who had previously claimed that his cartel had been protected by the United States government while it informed on rivals.
And despite Mr. Guzmán’s infamy, there are questions about whether he was truly the biggest drug trafficker in Mexico or just one of various powerful kingpins, including his fellow Sinaloan trafficker Ismael Zambada García, called El Mayo, who is still at large. Indeed, the prosecution said in its closing argument that it didn’t matter if Mr. Guzmán wasn’t the supreme head of the Sinaloa cartel, so long as he was one of its bosses.
A veteran agent for the Drug Enforcement Administration once admitted to me that the policy of taking down kingpins didn’t stop the flow of drugs. But he said that it did stop certain drug traffickers who were becoming too infamous and powerful, which made them a threat to governments.
Perhaps the conviction of Mr. Guzmán at least shows aspiring drug traffickers that they cannot become as notorious as El Chapo and escape the law. But for the families looking for their loved ones in the mass graves here in Mexico and the families of those who have died of drug overdoses in the United States, the search for justice and peace continues.
Egyptian security officials at the Cairo International Airport foiled a plot to smuggle out of the country mummified limbs that were hidden inside a loudspeaker, Egypt’s Ministry of Antiquities announced on Sunday. The contraband was to be loaded on a plane to Belgium when authorities spotted something strange on the X-rays.
In a hollowed-out speaker, they found six preserved body parts belonging to two different mummies: two sets of feet and lower legs; two sets of hands and forearms; an upper arm; and part of an upper torso, according to Iman Abdel-Raouf, an Egyptian official who works on archaeological matters. The authorities did not identify the smuggler, or whether any perpetrators were charged.
[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]
The recovered remains will be brought to the Egyptian Museum in Cairo so that a team of archaeologists can inspect and conserve them, according to the ministry. Their analysis could provide insight into the origins of these body parts, and how they relate to other discoveries. Every artifact from Egypt’s past, no matter the size, helps shape scientists’ understanding of its ancient civilizations.
Grave robbing and smuggling have long troubled Egypt. Looting of ancient Egyptian artifacts escalated during the 2011 revolution, and the country has lost an estimated $3 billion to illegal smuggling since then, according to the Antiquities Coalition, an American nonprofit that tracks the looting and trafficking of antiquities.
“So long as there is a demand for looted and stolen artifacts, thieves and traffickers are going to find the supply,” said Tess Davis, the coalition’s executive director. “It’s impossible to police all of the country all of the time.”
In 1983, the country enacted a law, known as Law No. 117, mandating that all antiquities, art and artifacts — mummies included — were to be strictly regulated and considered the property of Egypt. Anyone found guilty of smuggling such items from the country could face fines and up to two years in prison.
Some stolen bits of history are finding their way home. Earlier this month, the Metropolitan Museum of Art announced that it would return to Egypt a gilded coffin that belonged to a priest named Nedjemankh, dated to the 1st century B.C. It was purchased in 2017 from an art dealer in Paris for $4 million. Bogus papers claimed it had been exported out of Egypt legally, when it had in fact been looted in 2011.
Enrique Hernandez hit a three-run home run with two outs in the eighth inning and the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers extended their winning streak to six games with a 5-3 victory Friday over the Milwaukee Brewers.
Hernandez connected on an 0-2 pitch against Brewers All-Star closer Josh Hader (0-1) to break a 2-2 tie and score A.J. Pollock and David Freese, both of whom walked. It was Hernandez's fifth home run of the season.
Christian Yelich hit a home run for the second consecutive game and for the sixth time in five games as the Brewers lost their third consecutive game overall and their third consecutive against the Dodgers since Sunday. Milwaukee's Eric Thames hit his third home run in the eighth.
Pedro Baez (1-1) recorded two outs in the seventh inning to pick up the victory. Kenley Jansen pitched a scoreless ninth inning for his seventh save and his third in three days.
Yankees 6, Royals 2
CC Sabathia allowed an unearned run in five innings and Brett Gardner hit a two-run homer as New York beat Kansas City at Yankee Stadium.
After throwing 62 pitches in his return from cardiac surgery and a knee injury in his season debut Saturday against the Chicago White Sox, Sabathia (1-0) was stretched out further this time and delivered an 86-pitch outing. He worked around four walks and held the Royals to three hits while getting five strikeouts for his 247th career win.
Gardner provided the Yankees with a 2-1 lead when he blasted 2-0 fastball from Kansas City starter Jakob Junis (1-2) over the right-center field fence in the third. Mike Tauchman also homered in the fifth as the Yankees won for the third time in four games despite committing three errors.
Rockies 4, Phillies 3 (12 innings)
Charlie Blackmon hit a two-run homer with two outs in the bottom of the 12th inning as Colorado rallied to beat Philadelphia in Denver.
Bryce Harper had five hits and Rhys Hoskins and Maikel Franco had three hits apiece for the Phillies, who saw two players leave with injuries -- Andrew McCutchen was hurt on a swing in the second inning and shortstop Scott Kingery suffered a right hamstring injury running to first in his third at-bat.
The Phillies took a 3-2 lead on Harper's RBI double in the top of the 12th off Chad Bettis (1-2) but Colorado came back against Juan Nicasio (0-1). Tony Wolters drew a one-out walk and after Raimel Tapia popped out, Blackmon hit a 1-2 fastball into the Philadelphia bullpen to end it.
Astros 7, Rangers 2
Justin Verlander worked seven strong innings and was backed by an offense that produced seven extra-base hits as Houston claimed the opener of its three-game series with Texas at Globe Life Park in Arlington.
Verlander (3-0) gave up his first hit with two outs in the fourth inning and carried a shutout into the sixth. He surrendered a leadoff home run to Rangers second baseman Danny Santana in that frame but recovered to complete his outing with flair, getting three successive called strikes against Texas center fielder Delino DeShields.
The Astros got off to a rousing start against Rangers left-hander Drew Smyly (0-2), with George Springer (double), Jose Altuve (home run) and Alex Bregman (home run) reaching in succession to open the game. When Altuve added an RBI single in the second, Houston led 4-0 and cruised from there.
Cubs 5, Diamondbacks 1
Kyle Hendricks pitched seven scoreless innings and struck out 11 as Chicago snapped visiting Arizona's four-game winning streak on a cold, blustery Friday afternoon.
Hendricks (1-3) gave up three hits and walked two. Steve Cishek pitched the eighth to run the Cubs' scoreless innings streak to 31 before the Diamondbacks rallied off Brad Brach in the ninth.
Arizona starter Merrill Kelly (1-2) worked around two walks in a 33-pitch first inning and was almost out of a no-out, bases-loaded jam in the second when Kris Bryant hit what normally would have been a lazy fly behind second base. But the wind took over and second baseman Wilmer Flores stumbled while chasing the ball, which fell into shallow right field for a two-run double.
Pirates 4, Giants 1
Right-hander Jordan Lyles pitched six four-hit, scoreless innings before leaving because of a hand injury, and Pittsburgh earned a fourth consecutive win, beating visiting San Francisco.
Lyles (2-0), Pittsburgh's fifth starter and part of a rotation that led the National League entering the night with a collective 2.09 ERA, struck out six and walked one. He lowered his ERA to 0.53. Lyles left after an inning-ending double-play comebacker by Joe Panik in the sixth grazed his pitching hand as he instinctively ducked and raised his hands. He was being evaluated for a contusion. The Pirates also lost center fielder Starling Marte and shortstop Erik Gonzalez when they collided while chasing a fly ball in the eighth.
Giants starter Madison Bumgarner (1-3) gave up four first-inning runs before settling down to go another five innings. He allowed six hits and one walk while striking out seven.
Marlins 3, Nationals 2
Miami ended its 24-inning scoreless streak early in the game and went on to defeat Washington at Marlins Park, ending a four-game losing streak and winning for just the third time in its last 16 contests.
Left-hander Caleb Smith (2-0) earned the victory, giving up one run on five hits without walking a batter while striking out eight in six innings. He has 29 strikeouts in 23 innings this year.
Washington's Anibal Sanchez -- who made his major league debut with the Marlins in 2006 and had a no-hitter in six-plus seasons with the franchise -- took the loss to fall to 0-2. He allowed five hits, four walks and three runs in 5 1/3 innings. He also struck out six.
Mets 5, Cardinals 4
Wilson Ramos and J.D. Davis had back-to-back RBI hits in the first inning for visiting New York, which never trailed but needed to survive a late comeback by St. Louis to end a two-game losing streak. The Cardinals have lost three of four.
St. Louis starter Adam Wainwright (1-2) retired the first two batters of the game before giving up a double to Robinson Cano, who had a season-high three hits. Michael Conforto walked, after which Ramos singled home Cano before Davis doubled to score Conforto.
Seth Lugo (1-0), the first of five Mets relievers, earned the win despite allowing two runs in two innings. Edwin Diaz allowed a pair of baserunners before retiring Molina on a lineout to close out his seventh save. The two runs Lugo gave up came off the bat of pinch hitter Lane Thomas, who hit a two-run homer in his first big league plate appearance.
Reds 3, Padres 2 (11 innings)
Derek Dietrich hit a two-run homer off Craig Stammen with one out in the 11th inning to lead Cincinnati past host San Diego and hand the Padres their fifth straight loss after an 11-5 start to the season. The Reds scored a second straight win following four consecutive defeats.
Right-handed reliever Jared Hughes (2-0) pitched one scoreless inning for the win, and Michael Lorenzen recorded his first save. Stammen (2-1) took the loss after yielding two runs (one earned) in two innings.
Dietrich's homer followed a pitching duel between starters Anthony DeSclafani of Cincinnati and Matt Strahm of San Diego, each of whom gave up a solo home run and only two hits.
Red Sox 6, Rays 4
Mookie Betts and Mitch Moreland hit back-to-back home runs to break an eighth-inning tie as Boston beat Tampa Bay in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Betts, critical of himself earlier this week for his poor play to begin the season, went deep to dead center to lead off the eighth for a 5-4 lead, and Moreland followed with a blast to right-center as Boston snapped a three-game losing streak, with Brandon Workman (1-1) getting the win in relief.
The Rays lost for just the third time in their past 11 games. Diego Castillo (0-2), who served up both eighth-inning homers to the only two batters he faced, took the loss.
White Sox 7, Tigers 3
Yoan Moncada homered, scored twice and drove in two runs, Carlos Rodon pitched six strong innings, and Chicago topped host Detroit.
Moncada hit his sixth homer this season, a solo shot in the first inning. Leury Garcia and Jose Abreu also drove in two runs apiece, while Ryan Cordell scored twice. Rodon (3-2) held the Tigers to one run on three hits, walking three and striking struck out six.
Tigers starter Jordan Zimmermann (0-3) allowed five runs on six hits in 6 1/3 innings. He struck out four and walked four against the White Sox, who were without shortstop Tim Anderson and manager Rick Renteria as they served one-game league suspensions for their conduct during a benches-clearing incident against Kansas City on Wednesday.
Mariners 5, Angels 3
Tim Beckham and Omar Narvaez hit back-to-back solo homers in the ninth inning to lift Seattle over host Los Angeles for the second straight night.
As they did on Thursday, the Mariners broke a tie in the ninth off Angels reliever Cody Allen (0-2) and spoiled a late-game comeback by Los Angeles. The Angels rallied from a 10-2 deficit in the seventh inning of the series opener on Thursday, tied the score in the eighth, but lost 11-10.
Mike Trout hit a two-run homer off Mariners starter Marco Gonzales in the eighth on Friday to tie the score at 3-3, ending Gonzales' bid to become the first 5-0 pitcher in the majors. Zac Rosscup (2-0) got the final two outs of the eighth, and Roenis Elias pitched the ninth for his fourth save.
Blue Jays 5, A's 1
Danny Jansen highlighted a four-run second inning with a two-RBI double and right-hander Marcus Stroman pitched into the ninth for his first win of the season as Toronto rolled over host Oakland in the opener of a three-game series.
Brandon Drury took A's starter Aaron Brooks (2-2) deep for his first home run of the season, helping Toronto win for the fourth time in five games on their seven-game trip. Stroman (1-3), who had watched the Blue Jays score a total of six runs in his first four starts, got an early boost from the four-run second.
Stroman was dominant in his eight-plus innings, allowing one run and six hits. He walked two and struck out six.
Twins at Orioles, ppd.
Minnesota's scheduled game at Baltimore was rained out. The contest will be made up as part of a doubleheader Saturday.
Braves at Indians, ppd.
Atlanta's scheduled game at Cleveland was rained out. The contest will be made up as part of a doubleheader Saturday.
--Field Level Media
HATE The Rising Tide of Anti-Semitism in France (and What It Means for Us) By Marc Weitzmann
Anti-Semitism is rising throughout the Western world, a byproduct of the nationalist, nativist wave that has targeted cosmopolitan, globalized elites as culprits for growing inequality and cultural alienation. Jews know all about that “cosmopolitan” thing. They also know about the power of myth. Conspiratorial slurs have never multiplied as fast as in the age of social media. Things do not have to be true, Marc Weitzmann writes in “Hate,” they “just need to be transmitted as many times as possible.” The Protocols of the Elders of Zion has found in technology a powerful multiplier, as have various forms of Islamophobia.
In Europe, where the Israeli-Palestinian conflict spills over (another Gaza war, another synagogue desecrated), the anti-Semitic surge has been particularly marked. France, home to the continent’s largest Jewish and Muslim communities, cradle of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the emancipation of the Jews in 1791, has been its epicenter. Even the yellow-vest protests of the marginalized have not been immune. “Go back to Tel Aviv!” demonstrators yelled recently at the prominent French essayist Alain Finkielkraut.
The slaughter of Jewish children at an Orthodox school in Toulouse in 2012, the terrorist attack on a kosher supermarket in a Paris suburb in 2015 and the brutal murder in 2018 of Mireille Knoll, a Holocaust survivor, form a trail of horror. Weitzmann, in this impassioned book that swirls sometimes chaotically from personal to historical reflections, sets out to understand the reasons for the scourge and to cut through what he sees as persistent French obfuscation of it.
The author is from a secular French Jewish family. At the age of 30, he gets himself circumcised and has a bar mitzvah. Weitzmann asks himself: Is this an act of madness or an affirmation of Jewish identity? He says he is unsure but seems to provide the answer by saying he would do it again.
In moving passages, he describes the deaths of his father, who worked for a theater company, and his great-uncle, a Resistance war hero. Both men, at the ends of their lives, had to endure signs of France’s anti-Semitic reawakening. Near his father’s apartment in Bobigny, a swastika is sprayed on a wagon at Drancy, the main transit camp for the more than 70,000 Jews sent by the Vichy government to Nazi death camps. Howls of “Juif! La France n’est pas à toi” (“Jew! France is not yours”) issue from a demonstration in front of his great-uncle’s house in 2014.
Survivors of World War II, Weitzmann’s forebears had considered such a resurgence impossible. Weitzmann is haunted by these family memories. Working at a newspaper, he finds his perspective “questioned because of my last name” at a time of several “anti-Jewish brutalities” in the “Cités,” or projects. Ringing big French cities, these decaying agglomerations are home to a large immigrant North African Muslim population.
His colleagues suggest the incidents — beatings, insults and threats — are probably the work of Mossad. To protest, Weitzmann suggests, is to risk being dismissed as “an identity politics nut” in a country where citizenship is supposed to subsume differences of ethnicity or religion through the secular model known as laïcité. France’s multihued World Cup-winning soccer team is French: end of official story.
That model worked for many decades, as generations of Portuguese or Italian immigrants can attest. It faltered with the large influx of Muslims from the Maghreb. Often the object of prejudice, these new migrants, many from Algeria, whose savage war of independence from French rule traumatized both countries, found themselves in a country “haunted by the loss of its colonial glory.” Some turned to radical Islam absent any genuine French option.
For these young project dwellers in search of “cultural roots,” embracing “tropes of an anti-Jewish hate” that are woven into the language of their environs was, Weitzmann suggests, an easy step. The stand-up comedian Dieudonné M’Bala M’Bala became a wildly popular figure with “jokes” that played on Jewish stereotypes. His repressed Nazi salute known as the “quenelle” went viral.
Faced by these fractures, France has hesitated to question its system. The lone-wolf explanation of violence, its attribution to psychotic episodes rather than Islamist networks breeding in the Cités, spared the nation self-examination. It was easier to speak of a single delirious mind than a delirious anti-Semitic mind, even if the core of the delirium was often this: Jew as devil.
Weitzmann cites a psychiatrist who examined Kobili Traoré, the man accused of defenestrating a Jewish woman, Sarah Halimi, in 2017. His report found that the sight of Halimi’s mezuza produced an immediate association “with the devil” that amplified “the frantic outburst of hate.” A judge recently classified the murder as an anti-Semitic act after French authorities had been hesitant to do so.
An exploration of the French intelligentsia’s cultural paralysis — its tendency to find excuses for, or alternative explanations of, anti-Semitic violence — stands at the core of the book. Weitzmann recounts in great detail the case of Mohammed Merah, the 23-year-old killer of three Jewish children and a rabbi at the Ozar Hatorah School in Toulouse, as well as of French soldiers in the preceding days. These soldiers happened, like Merah, to be of North African origin — testament to the fact that French integration can still work.
Merah, later killed in a shootout with police officers, came from a dysfunctional family, plagued by domestic violence, petty crime and drug trafficking. His father, born in Algeria, was unstable, a sometime supporter of Algeria’s radical Islamist Salvation Front, the father of 15 to 20 children (nobody knows precisely). Merah had the odds stacked against him.
That, of course, is also the case with plenty of people who don’t end up spraying bullets through Jewish children or young soldiers. Still, Merah is widely portrayed in French media as a victim of France’s social and racial prejudice. Neocolonial anti-Muslim racism and discrimination lie behind the killings. “Do not generalize!” becomes the watchword in the aftermath of the attacks, Weitzmann writes. Yet Merah had been in Waziristan, he had received training there, he had told police negotiators during the long siege leading to his death that in Waziristan, he was instructed to “kill everything,” but fearing he would be seen as just “another crazy terrorist,” he decided to “just kill soldiers and Jews” — the French soldiers who fight Muslims in Afghanistan, the Jews who oppress Palestinians and run the world.
“Hate” is at times a sloppy, frustrating and repetitive book. It aspires to reportage without much of the hard-won, on-the-ground reporting needed to undergird that ambition. It often reads as awkwardly translated French — “the souvenir of the guillotine.” It can veer close to psychobabble — “Any system that pretends to authenticity must give way to psychopathy and violence, if only because it is the best way to communicate.” But it is redeemed by often illuminating intensity as it grapples with an unresolved French and European quandary.
A friend recently told me that during a taxi ride from Charles de Gaulle airport to the Gare d’Austerlitz in Paris, he encountered this piece of graffiti: “Macron+Les Juifs=Va t’en!” or roughly, “Macron and the Jews, Get out!”
Emmanuel Macron has not been forgiven for once working at the Rothschild investment bank. Rothschild, to French Jew haters, has long been a “code word” for a “U.S.-imported capitalist system backed by the foreign ‘kikes’ who were said to control it,” Weitzmann writes. The bank’s name was a regular anti-Macron cry among rightist National Front supporters during the 2017 presidential election campaign. In the almost two years since then, the climate has worsened.
For Weitzmann, the reason for this is that many threads have converged to form 21st-century French anti-Semitism. He sees his country at war with modernity, one part aligned with the universalism of the Enlightenment, the other decrying the loss of nation and identity in rootless globalization — for which the stateless Jew becomes a symbol. He notes how “the global democracy of homosexuals and Jews” attacked by Islamists intersects with tropes about the decadent West from rightists of every stripe. He is cleareyed about what the banal anti-Semitism coursing through blighted projects has wrought.
What Weitzmann does not do is propose solutions, even if one is implicit in his unflinching account: France needs an honest confrontation with the untamed demons in its midst.
ROME — Women of all ages, and some men, took to the streets in a dozen cities around the world on Saturday, the  anniversary of the 2017 Women’s March that served as a strong rebuke of President Trump’s policies.
The annual marches and rallies have taken on wider themes since then, such as challenging the rise of the far right, while also calling for an end to inequality, the gender pay gap and violence against women.
Some events were organized in response to a call from the United States to create a “Women’s Wave.” But others were held independently, and in many cases, the core message was that women’s rights are about more than Mr. Trump.
In cities across the United States, women braved subzero temperatures in some parts of the country to march even as accusations of anti-Semitism have rocked the movement and prompted questions about its future.
[Read about the U.S. marches, underscored by divisions and celebrations.]
The rallies in European countries like Germany and Italy included warnings of bleak times because of the rise of populism and the far-right. In London, women marched against punishing austerity measures. But the turnout fell shy of the many thousands that had filled the streets two years ago.
In Rome, women met in a downtown square, where they took aim at Italy’s populist government, which has been accused of whittling away at measures that protect women and migrants.
They chanted against fascism, against the “Italians First” mentality promoted by the government’s main political parties — the League and the Five Star Movement — and they blasted Italy’s grim record of violence against women.
According to a parliamentary report issued last year, one in three women have reported being “subjected to some form of physical or sexual abuse.”
“We are channeling our rage, once again,” said Kiersten Pilar Miller, the founder of an association that assists pregnant women in Rome. “We want all our anger turned into usable action.”
There were speeches, chants and songs, and even a demand for the government to lower taxes on tampons and menstrual pads.
Warning that the rise of the right in Europe and the United States puts at risk rights that affect women, as well as migrants, Raffaella Palladino, president of D.i.Re, a network of women’s centers and shelters, said that women were not going to “give up one millimeter” in defending their rights.
“This was a country that used to assist women who were victims of human trafficking, and exploitation. Now, we are erecting walls and closing ports to ships that rescue migrants at sea,” she told participants, referring to Italian policy under Interior Minister Matteo Salvini to no longer participate in sea rescues outside the maritime border and to bar ships carrying rescued migrants from docking.
In an interview, Ms. Palladino said women in Italy faced a difficult time. Violence is prevalent, and if women denounce their aggressors, she said, they do not get “sufficient protection.”
Although a report by Istat, the national statistic agency, said that 43 percent of working Italian women had been subjected to some form of harassment at least once during their life, the Me Too movement has not taken hold in Italy.
“MeToo was nonexistent in Italy because women were afraid of speaking out, and those who did were revictimized and condemned,” said Luisa Betti Dakli, a journalist and one of the speakers.
Carlo Cosenza of Sentinelli di Roma, an association that describes itself as “lay and anti-fascist,” got one of the biggest cheers of the day when he held up a poster showing Mr. Salvini and Mr. Trump.
“These people are trying to build a future that is not open to all. Let’s stop them now,” he said.
In London, organizers chose “Women Demand Bread & Roses” as a slogan this year to protest the government’s squeeze on essential services. It drew inspiration from the American “Bread and Roses” protests for working women’s rights in the 1910s.
The march across the heart of London drew around 3,000 people. They held signs reading, “Men of Quality Don’t Fear Equality” and “Brexit Wrecks It,” reflecting  the political deadlock ahead of the March deadline for Britain to leave the European Union.
In Berlin, around 2,000 protesters marched from the Brandenburg Gate to the Alexanderplatz along the famous Unter den Linden. Organizers called for scrapping a Hitler-era law that makes it a crime for doctors to advertise that they perform abortions.
Marchers in Frankfurt, Germany, met at two spots at 5 minutes to 12, in a reference to the urgency of women’s issue. Roughly 1,200 people marched, according to the Frankfurt police, many wearing the pink knit hats emblematic of the movement.
They waved flag and held signs saying, “Teach girls to be somebodies, instead of Somebody’s,” and others spoke of racism, gay rights and abortion issues. Members of Green and Social democratic parties showed up with party banners.
Marches were scheduled for Sunday in cities such as Sydney, Australia, Taipei, Buenos Aires and later in the year elsewhere.
Women in Spain held rallies this past week that were independent of the Women’s March movement but that denounced the return of the far-right in Spanish politics. On Tuesday, they protested against the right-wing coalition government taking office in Andalusia, led by the Popular Party but supported by Vox, a far-right party that secured its first parliamentary seats in elections last month.
Vox is nationalist and anti-immigrant, but has also angered women’s associations because of its call for Spain to abolish its abortion law and to overhaul another law covering gender violence. Vox has also questioned official data about domestic violence and wants to unwind gay rights in a country that was among the first to allow same-sex marriage, in 2005.
The protests involved about 45 women’s associations and took place in 50 cities. Protesters held signs that read, “Not a step backward,” in defense of abortion and other rights.
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — A Florida clemency board has denied an early prison release for a man known as "White Boy Rick," once one of the FBI's youngest informants and the subject of a recent Hollywood movie.
The Executive Clemency Board sent a letter two weeks ago to Richard Wershe Jr.'s attorney, saying it has denied the request for a commuted sentence.
The letter didn't state a reason.
Wershe's current release date is in October 2020.
Wershe is in prison for his role in an interstate car theft ring which operated while he was already imprisoned. At age 14, Wershe was an FBI informant in Detroit who helped convict a major cocaine trafficking ring but he eventually got caught selling drugs himself.
His story was the basis of the 2018 film "White Boy Rick."
A look at what's happening around the majors Saturday:
MEXICAN MATCHUP
Major League Baseball returns to Estadio de Béisbol de Monterrey when the St. Louis Cardinals and Cincinnati Reds begin a two-game series. Adam Wainwright starts for the Cards against Tanner Roark.
The Astros and Angels play a two-game series at the same park in early May.
MLB began holding regular season games in Mexico in 1996, and the 1999 season opened with a matchup in Monterrey between the Padres and Colorado. Last May, the Padres and Los Angeles Dodgers played a three-game series at the stadium — Walker Buehler and the Dodgers bullpen combined for a no-hitter.
EASY DOES IT
Pittsburgh's Chris Archer makes his first start since being suspended for touching off a bench-clearing fracas at PNC Park last Sunday.
Archer threw a fastball behind the waist of Cincinnati's Derek Dietrich, who had stood in the batter's box to admire a long home run in his previous at-bat. There were five ejections — Archer wasn't tossed.
Archer was suspended five games by Major League Baseball on Tuesday. He appealed the penalty and can continue to play until there's a final ruling. Archer and the Pirates visit Washington.
TRYING AGAIN
Cubs right-hander Kyle Hendricks (0-2, 6.48 ERA) has struggled in each of his first two outings, yielding 18 hits in 8 1/3 innings. He starts at Wrigley Field against the Angels, who won't have star Mike Trout this weekend because of a strained groin.
WELCOME BACK
Edwin Jackson has agreed to a minor league deal with the Oakland Athletics, which last year became his record-matching 13th big league team. A's manager Bob Melvin says the 35-year-old righty will go to the team's spring training facility in Arizona before pitching in some games for Triple-A Las Vegas.
Jackson also signed a minor league deal with the A's last June, and then was 6-3 with a 3.33 ERA in 17 starts for Oakland, which was 14-3 in those games. With his A's debut, Jackson matched former reliever Octavio Dotel's record of pitching for 13 different teams.
___
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — On a recent afternoon, a Chinese politics student at the University of British Columbia waited outside a seven-bedroom mansion, worth roughly 16 million Canadian dollars, in Vancouver’s exclusive Shaughnessy neighborhood, hoping for a glimpse of Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, Canada’s most famous detainee.
But Ms. Meng, who is out on bail awaiting possible extradition to the United States on fraud charges, did not appear. She is holed up at her other Vancouver home, a six-bedroom house worth approximately 6 million Canadian dollars in the wealthy Dunbar neighborhood, while this one is being renovated.
“Meng is a source of national pride in China, and I wanted to see a superrich Asian lifestyle,” said the student, Parker Li. “Many Chinese people from mainland China feel she is being unfairly bullied by the United States.”
Many Canadians, though, feel differently.
Three months after her arrest, Ms. Meng has become both a subject of curiosity and a polarizing figure in Vancouver, which has had a significant concentration of Asians stretching back to its founding in the 19th century.
To some, she is yet another wealthy foreigner who has used the city as a real estate investment, helping make it one of the most unaffordable cities in North America.
And they contrast her predicament — able to travel relatively freely about the city, if with a GPS tracker around her ankle and under 24-hour surveillance — with that of their fellow citizens, several of whom have been arrested by China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Meng’s arrest.
[China has accused two Canadian detainees of spying. Read more on the allegations, which are likely to widen a political rift between the countries.]
Tensions between Canada and China have seldom been more tense.
On Monday, China accused Michael Kovrig, a former Canadian diplomat, of spying and stealing state secrets, which the government said another detained Canadian, Michael Spavor, gave to him.
The accusation came just days after Canada authorized Ms. Meng’s extradition hearing in Vancouver, which is expected to begin Wednesday at the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
Since they were detained in December, Mr. Kovrig and Mr. Spavor have been held in secret detention sites, without visits from lawyers and family members. Another Canadian, Robert Lloyd Schellenberg, faces a death sentence in China for drug smuggling.
And the legal fight has now spread, with more court actions.
Over the weekend, lawyers for Ms. Meng announced they were suing members of the Canadian Border Services Agency, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the federal government for breaching her constitutional rights when she was detained for three hours in December before being arrested.
Further ratcheting up the acrimony, Huawei is preparing to sue the United States government for banning federal agencies from using the company’s products.
In Vancouver, the case against Ms. Meng has played into a citywide fixation with skyrocketing real estate prices and the effect of foreign investment.
“Meng has tapped into anger and resentment here at the incredible inequality in Vancouver, this idea that foreigners are buying freedom here and turning Vancouver into a hedge city where you park your money but you don’t stay,” said Andy Yan, an adjunct professor at Simon Fraser University who studies the social consequences of Vancouver’s real estate explosion.
“People are upset that she is under house arrest in a mansion while two Canadians sit in Chinese jails,” he added.
Mr. Yan noted that her residence in the house in the Dunbar neighborhood, on the west side of the city, had particularly touched a nerve. The area was emblematic of many others in the city that had once been the domain of the aspirational middle class but had become flooded with foreign capital.
“Now only millionaires can afford to live there,” he said.
At dinner parties and cafes across the city, many here have dismissed Ms. Meng as a “poor little rich girl” who, under the terms of her $10 million bail, is allowed to leave her house until an 11 p.m. curfew, including traveling to Richmond, a nearby city with a vibrant Chinese community, dim sum restaurants and sprawling shopping malls selling designer brands.
“If you have to be in prison this doesn’t seem like a bad one to be in,” said Karen Weichel, a neighbor of Ms. Meng in Dunbar, pointing to the executive’s spacious home, guarded by several teams of security guards in suits sitting in Cadillac SUVs.
They are charged with, among other things, ensuring she doesn’t try to escape.
The other day, a security guard outside her Dunbar house, said that in recent weeks, she had kept a low profile and stayed at home. On one occasion she bought pizza for the journalists outside the home.
A purple sedan with “Bubba” on its license plate was parked in the back of the house, blocking the driveway.
A Chinese neighbor from Beijing who was out walking her dog said that after Ms. Meng’s release on bail, she had run into her on the street as she was getting into her chauffeur-driven car.
“We find it hard to accept what Canada is doing,” she said. “It doesn’t seem to be able to distinguish between good and evil and we hope that Ms. Meng will come out of this safely.”
Ms. Meng herself pays for a team of guards from Lions Gate Risk Management Group, a private security firm, who monitor her, keep a log book and note every person entering and leaving the house.
Those who offered collateral to facilitate her bail reflected the city, where pedestrians with yoga mats can be seen walking and residents talk obsessively about property: They included a part-time yoga instructor and the realtor who sold Ms. Meng and her husband their two imposing homes.
[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]
Ms. Meng is the eldest daughter of Ren Zhengfei, Huawei’s founder, and rose from being a secretary to the company’s public face. During her bail hearing in December, her lawyer, David Martin, said she was looking forward to spending some quality time with her family during her detention.
She hadn’t “read a novel in years,” he told the court, adding that she was considering pursuing a doctorate in business administration at the University of British Columbia, where Huawei is financing millions of dollars of research, including into 5G wireless networks.
Mr. Li, the university student who studies China’s political economy, said Ms. Meng’s case had divided students on campus, with some from mainland China tending to sympathize with her plight and others viewing her arrest as Canada merely trying to apply the rule of law.
Wenran Jiang, a senior fellow at the Institute of Asian Research at the University of British Columbia, noted that for some Chinese immigrants in the city, Ms. Meng’s arrest had tapped into deep-seated historical memories of Canada’s discrimination against Chinese people.
Between 1885 and 1923 the Canadian government imposed a “head tax” on Chinese immigrants intended to limit arrivals. And Chinese immigration, with rare exception, was banned altogether in 1923, a ban that lasted more than two decades.
“Vancouver is a very Asian city so there is a deep fascination with Meng because she is such a high-profile Chinese person,” he said. “For some, she has become a powerful symbol of Chinese people once again being subjugated.”
WASHINGTON — For years, the Pentagon has maintained that no civilians have been killed in American airstrikes and raids in Somalia. Amnesty International, in a new report released on Tuesday, put the death toll at 14 since 2017 alone.
The report linked the killings to President Trump’s decision to relax rules for preventing civilian casualties during American counterterrorism strikes in Somalia. Amnesty said it examined five airstrikes that killed 14 civilians and injured eight.
“In the incidents presented in this report, civilians were killed and injured in attacks that may have violated international humanitarian law and could, in some cases, constitute war crimes,” the report said.
It called into question repeated claims by United States Africa Command that there have been no civilian casualties from American strikes against the extremist Islamist group known as the Shabab. The report also attributed the discrepancy to failures by the American military and the Somali government to adequately investigate claims that civilians were killed in airstrikes and raids by United States forces.
Africa Command disputed the report’s findings and maintained it had killed zero civilians in Somalia. “Our assessments found that no Africom airstrike resulted in any civilian casualty or injury,” the command said in a statement.
Instead, American military officials said, extremist groups in Somalia are making up casualties and coercing locals to make false claims of civilians killed. “Al Shabab and ISIS-Somalia have a history of placing their forces and facilities in and around civilian locations to conceal and shield their activities,” the statement said.
But during a conference call on Tuesday with reporters, Defense Department officials acknowledged that it was difficult to verify civilian casualties because most American airstrikes and raids take place in areas that are controlled by the Shabab.
Before Mr. Trump took office, the military was generally required to follow standards that President Barack Obama imposed in 2013 for counterterrorism strikes beyond Afghanistan, Iraq and other conventional war zones.
Those rules, known as the Presidential Policy Guidance, required high-level interagency vetting of proposed strikes. They also said that the target must pose a threat to Americans and that there must be near certainty that no bystanders would die.
In March 2017, Mr. Trump signed a directive declaring parts of Somalia an “area of active hostilities,” where war zone targeting rules would apply.
Under the new guidelines, Africa Command could treat Somalia under less restrictive battlefield rules. Without interagency vetting, commanders could strike suspected Shabab fighters even without reason to believe they posed a threat to Americans.
In addition, the guidelines opened the door to permitting some civilian deaths if deemed necessary and proportionate to the threat.
“The civilian death toll we’ve uncovered in just a handful of strikes suggests the shroud of secrecy surrounding the U.S. role in Somalia’s war is actually a smokescreen for impunity,” Brian Castner, Amnesty International’s senior crisis adviser, said in a statement.
He called Africa Command’s assertions of zero casualties “all the more fanciful when you consider the U.S.A. has tripled its airstrikes across the country since 2016, outstripping their strikes in Libya and Yemen combined.”
But Amnesty acknowledged that its investigators were also hampered by security concerns. As with Africa Command, that prevented Amnesty from conducting on site interviews and limited aid workers’ ability to freely gather evidence. The group said it interviewed a total of 142 witnesses and survivors, with 65 who had witnessed strikes where civilian casualties were confirmed.
In one case, the report cited a drone strike on Oct. 16, 2017, against a Shabab vehicle. The attack missed its target and killed two civilians and injured five, including two children.
Amnesty called on Africa Command to “acknowledge civilian casualties caused by U.S. attacks and offer compensation and explanation to survivors and families of civilians killed in U.S. strikes regardless of whether the casualties were caused by a lawful attack.”
In 2013, the Shabab carried out an attack at the Westgate mall in Nairobi, Kenya, killing more than 60 people and wounding more than 175. Since then, it has adopted more sophisticated forms of terrorism, including nearly bringing down a Somali airliner in 2016 with a bomb hidden in a laptop computer.
To counter the Shabab, the United States has used Special Operations forces, airstrikes, private contractors and assistance from African allies.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the departures of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel were expected.
The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by President Trump to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.
Many immigration policy changes require congressional approval, however.
Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.
In court: A California judge on Monday blocked the president’s efforts to force asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are adjudicated by the immigration courts.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government continued meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to discuss a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled for Friday.
Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.
What’s next: The Conservative government and Labour resume talks today, and European leaders are expected to meet and consider Mrs. May’s request for another Brexit extension on Wednesday. 
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, faces a decision after years of ambiguity regarding his stance on Brexit. Having accepted Mrs. May’s offer to negotiate, he will most likely face uncomfortable choices if she softens her stance and tries to tempt him with a credible compromise. 
Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the ouster of an autocratic ruler. In Algeria, millions of protesters forced out their own octogenarian leader last week. And in Libya, an aging general is battling to establish himself as a new strongman.
The hopes inspired in 2011 by the Arab Spring uprising, or the waves of anti-government protests in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, are reverberating across the region, shaking autocratic governments and posing questions about the future.
Protesters are seeking an end to closed and corrupt economies and authoritarian governments that are unresponsive to the public. “History repeats itself,” said one leader of the Egyptian uprising of 2011.
What’s next: President Trump is expected to host President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt at the White House today. Some scholars say the upheaval is a warning of the risks of embracing such autocratic allies too closely.
History lesson: Even the meaning of the Arab Spring remains contested. For authoritarian governments, it’s that popular revolutions lead to bedlam. For young people in Algeria and Sudan, it’s that nonviolent protests can oust even the most deeply entrenched dictator.
The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.
Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.
Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.
The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.
Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government.
Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually cover 3,000 miles.
But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.
Boeing: The company’s troubled 737 Max was built on a 1960s design, and it lacked notable safety features that have been offered for years on other planes. Our reporters look at the history behind the patchwork plane grounded after two crashes in five months.
Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.
Italy: Matteo Salvini, the most powerful figure in Italy’s government, announced the formation of a new European alliance of populist and far-right parties ahead of critical European Parliament elections in May. 
France: Citizens want lower taxes and no reduction in public services, according to a three-month national consultation in which some 1.5 million French citizens let the government know what they wanted. It was President Emmanuel Macron’s strategy for sucking the wind out of the Yellow Vest protest movement. 
Snapshot: Poland’s governing party has made gay people its top enemy. Maciej Gosniowski, above left, one of Poland’s few drag performers, said that while the vitriol directed at gays was alarming, he noticed an outpouring of support at the same time. “The two wings of society seem to be spreading apart,” he said.
What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”
Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.
Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.
Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.
Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.
We also have guidance on how to securely mount your flat-screen TV.
Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.
Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.
She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.
Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.
Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.
BERLIN — After serving 15 years in a German prison for his role as an accomplice in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States and being extradited last year to his native Morocco, Mounir el-Motassadeq was handed an envelope containing 7,000 euros in cash.
It was his prison wages — about $8,000 — including a monthly stipend.
Now, the German authorities are investigating what might have been a significant violation of the country’s foreign trade and payments law.
“When it comes to that money, we are looking into who gave exactly what instructions to whom,” Nana Frombach, a spokeswoman for the Hamburg district attorney’s office, said on Friday.
Ms. Frombach said investigators were scrutinizing who had authorized the payments to Mr. el-Motassadeq, a member of Al Qaeda and a friend of Mohamed Atta — one of the masterminds of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that killed thousands of people.
Mr. el-Motassadeq, now 44, is still on a number of terrorist watch lists around the world, including one compiled by the United Nations, according to media reports. And he is prohibited under German law from having any assets — whether earned before or after his conviction.
His case was brought to the district attorney’s office by Deutsche Bundesbank, the federal bank in Germany, after it noticed an irregularity. In general, it is legal for prisoners in Germany to be paid for work done while incarcerated, and payments can even be made into their state pensions. And if inmates can’t work, they receive a small allowance from the prison.
Under federal law, only the federal bank can approve payment exemptions for people on the terrorism watch list. When the bank saw that the money had been handed over to Mr. el-Motassadeq anyway — apparently by the prison — it went to the district attorney’s office.
It’s not clear what prison work Mr. el-Motassadeq had performed. The prison back wages for Mr. el-Motassadeq included a monthly stipend of €30. A formal investigation by the district attorney began in November — after the extradition in October — but the case became public when the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported on the payments on Wednesday.
Mr. el-Motassadeq first came to Germany from Morocco in 1993 as an engineering student. He fell in with a radical Islamic group in Hamburg that included two of the men, Mr. Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi, who would later hijack planes on Sept. 11, prosecutors said. Mr. el-Motassadeq was accused of wiring one of them money and admitted he had attended a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan sponsored by Osama bin Laden.
During a series of trials that began in 2003 and lasted five years, Mr. el-Motassadeq denied knowing about the plan to hijack airplanes and attack sites like the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon building outside Washington — saying that he had helped the hijackers unwittingly.
In 2005, a Hamburg court accepted his argument that he had played no direct role in the attacks. He was charged in another trial as an accessory to murder in the deaths of only those on the planes, rather than in the deaths of everyone killed in the attacks. He was found guilty in 2007.
After serving his sentence, he was extradited under heavy guard and taken in a helicopter to the airport. Guards accompanied him on a commercial flight to Casablanca, but apparently no one at the prison in Hamburg bothered to check whether he might still be on a terrorism watch list.
The Hamburg prison authorities confirmed that an officer had been given the cash to hand over to the released prisoner.
Mr. el-Motassadeq was taken to Morocco, where he is believed to be living in Marrakesh in a friend’s villa.

Good morning. 
British Parliament rejects Theresa May’s Brexit plan, Germany moves against a far-right party, and gay penguins in Sydney learn to co-parent. Here’s the latest: 
British lawmakers voted 432 to 202 against Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to leave the E.U. It was the biggest defeat in the House of Commons for a prime minister in recent history, and it appeared to rip the mast off the ship of state. 
Impact: Much of Mrs. May’s own party deserted her, and her plan looks less likely than ever to be realized. With a historically straitjacketed Parliament now seizing control of the situation, a new kind of British governance is taking shape, with a diminished prime minister and a dynamic of gridlock reminiscent of America.
What’s next? The opposition Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, put forward a motion of no confidence in Mrs. May, which Parliament will debate and vote on Wednesday. If the motion is successful, a new government will need to be formed in 14 days. But Mrs. May is seen as somewhat likely to survive that vote. 
Meanwhile, she must now prepare to return to Parliament by Monday with a backup withdrawal plan. And if nothing is approved by March 29, Britain will make a “no-deal” exit from the E.U., which lawmakers have warned could be a disaster. Here are some other ways this could all shake out.
Go deeper: Here’s a visual journey through Brexit, from the moment Britain voted to leave the E.U. in 2016 to the final vote today.
The Shabab, an Islamist extremist group with ties to Al Qaeda, claimed responsibility for an assault on a luxury hotel and office complex in Nairobi that killed as many as seven people.
Details: The coordinated attack began with a bomb explosion at a bank. A suicide bomber detonated himself in the lobby of a nearby seven-story hotel, and a number of gunmen swarmed as panic spread. The government said that security forces responded quickly, but it has not provided a death toll.
Background: The Shabab controls areas of southern and central Somalia. It has been fighting the United Nations-backed government in the capital, Mogadishu, for years, and carried out a recent rash of attacks in Kenya.
Quote: “I tried to escape with a friend but she fainted as we ran away from the gunshots,” one woman told a Kenyan television station. “So I had to leave her and hide in one of the bathrooms until the police came and rescued me.”
Let them talk. That’s President Emmanuel Macron’s latest answer for France’s contagion of unrest since the Yellow Vest movement emerged in December. 
On Tuesday, he inaugurated what his government calls the Great National Debate. But the way it went off revealed the depths of the country’s disorder. The police blockaded the village where he was to speak, and it came under virtual siege from Yellow Vests. 
Details: The French people will be given two months to complain about the state of things in an airing of grievances that Mr. Macron hopes will be a political salve. 
Big picture: However much Mr. Macron wants calm, there is a growing sense of emergency and menace. Members of Parliament have been targeted with violence, threats of violence and anti-Semitic and racist slurs. Vandalism and random violence is occurring through Paris and other cities, television journalists have been beaten, and Mr. Macron, his approval rating around 30 percent, is an increasingly bunkered-down figure — public appearances are now largely deemed too risky. 
History: Some historians are comparing the atmosphere to that of the 1930s, when fascistic leagues threatened France’s democracy and marched on the National Assembly.
For the first time in Germany’s postwar history, the country’s domestic agency will formally observe a party seated in Parliament.
It’s a step toward placing the party, the far-right Alternative for Germany, or AfD, under surveillance as a threat to the democratic order. Leaders of the AfD question democracy, but the party, the third-largest in Parliament, threatened legal action and insinuated that the move was politically motivated. 
What happened: The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, an agency whose founding mission after World War II was to protect against the rise of political forces like another Nazi party, announced that it would start observing the AfD’s youth wing and a group of prominent party members, including a co-leader, and that it had found indications that at least parts of the party harbored anti-democratic views. 
Another angle: The agency’s previous president reportedly advised AfD members on how to evade observation. 
El Chapo trial: In an incendiary accusation at Joaquín Guzmán Loera’s trial, a former cartel leader accused former President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico of taking a $100 million bribe from drug traffickers.
William Barr: President Trump’s nominee for attorney general assured senators at his confirmation hearing that he was determined to resist any pressure from the president to use law enforcement for political purposes.
U.S. shutdown: The partial government shutdown ended its 25th day with theatrics but no sign of a solution in Washington, and Mr. Trump ordered thousands of workers to return without pay to keep the government running. His White House acknowledged that the partial government shutdown was inflicting far greater damage on the U.S. economy than previously thought. 
Venezuela: The National Assembly, the opposition-controlled legislative body, declared President Nicolás Maduro illegitimate, setting in motion an uncertain plan to create a caretaker government until new elections can be held.
North Korea: The country is pursuing biological weapons that could present a more immediate threat to the world than its nuclear weapons program, according to a new military analysis.
Ivory Coast: The International Criminal Court in The Hague said that it had acquitted the former president of the country, Laurent Gbagbo, and one of his aides of crimes against humanity and a litany of other charges.
Gay penguins: Two male penguins in Australia are raising a chick together, capturing the hearts of a nation that made same-sex marriage legal just over a year ago. “Love is love,” said a manager at the Sea Life Sydney Aquarium.
Chang’e-4: Here’s a look at what China’s spacecraft has learned about the far side of the moon.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Pair spicy kimchi with mozzarella in a grilled cheese.
Many women are reluctant to discuss reproductive health. Here are five issues we should be talking about.
Puerto Rico is our No. 1 recommended spot to visit this year. The island is facing the consequences of climate change and deserves your attention.
By some estimates, China’s population of 1.4 billion is nearing its peak. To feed that many people, while using less land and water, the government is appealing to taste buds.
For several years now, official policy has aimed to make the humble potato a culinary staple, alongside rice, wheat and corn.
Potatoes can tolerate cold, drought and poor soil, and need less water, fertilizer, pesticide and labor. Since the 1990s, China has outstripped all other countries in production.
Potatoes are hardly new to China. They were introduced about 400 years ago, and feature in beloved regional dishes, like the shredded Sichuan specialty called tudousi.
But for starch, Chinese consumers prefer rice and noodles.
One workaround is to process the tubers into potato flour, which is then mixed with wheat flour to make steamed bread, noodles and cakes. The government also promotes regional potato dishes, and supports the production of fries and potato chips.
Claire Fu (付欣怡), a news researcher in our Beijing Bureau, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
SARAJEVO — A Bosnian national suspected of fighting for Islamic State in Syria has been transferred to Bosnia and put in detention, the Balkan country's prosecutor's office said on Saturday.
After the collapse of Islamic State's self-declared caliphate in Syria and Iraq, countries around the world are wrestling with how to handle militants and their families seeking to return. 
"I.C, 24, is suspected for criminal acts of organizing a terrorist group, illegal formation and of joining foreign paramilitary or para-police formations, and terrorism," the prosecutor's office said in a statement.
Bosnia's state court has tried and convicted 46 people who have returned from Syria or Iraq in the past few years. 
Local media identified the man as Ibro Cufurovic from the northwestern town of Velika Kladusa who, along with Armin Curt, 22, from Sarajevo, had been detained by the Kurdish militia more than a year ago.
The prosecution outlined the assistance of the United States in bringing the man back. The United States is the ally of the Kurdish militia operating in the northern Syria.
When asked about the return of the man to Bosnia and the separate return of fighters to Kosovo, U.S. military spokesman Sean Robertson said, "U.S. assets were used in support of this repatriation operation."
"At no time did the U.S. take custody of the FTF (foreign terrorist fighter) detainees," Robertson said. He declined to provide further details, citing security reasons.
According to Bosnian intelligence, 241 adults and 80 children left Bosnia or the Bosnian diaspora in 2012-2016 for Syria and Iraq, where 150 more children were born. About 100 adults, including 49 women, remained there while at least 88 have been killed or died. 
Several women with children, including the Cufurovic's wife, have pleaded with the Bosnian authorities to be allowed to return home but there is still no clear policy in place on how to deal with them because their children do not hold Bosnian citizenship. 
Also on Saturday, another Balkan state, Kosovo, brought back 110 of its citizens from Syria including fighters and 74 children. 
 (Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic, additional reporting by Yeganeh Torbati in Washington; Editing by Alistair Bell)
LONDON — British police fired shots Saturday at a car outside the Ukrainian Embassy in London after it rammed other cars parked in front of the embassy.
London's Metropolitan Police said firearms and stun guns were used to stop and detain a suspect who drove a vehicle at a police car when police arrived on the scene.
The Ukraine Embassy said its ambassador's official car, which was parked, was rammed twice before police arrived at 9:50 a.m. The embassy said none of its staff was injured.
Police said the suspect is a man in his 40s who did not appear to be injured but was taken to a central London hospital for a precautionary check. The suspect has not been identified or charged.
Police said the incident is not being treated as related to terrorism.
Chief Superintendent Andy Walker said, under standard procedure, the use of a police firearm in Britain is now being formally investigated. The Director of Professional Standards has been notified of the incident. He praised police for responding quickly.
The embassy is located in Holland Park, west London.
LONDON — An Iranian Revolutionary Guard commander warned the U.S. Navy to keep its warships at a distance from Revolutionary Guards speed boats in Gulf waters, a day after the United States designated the Guards as a terrorist organization.
"Mr Trump, tell your warships not to pass near the Revolutionary Guards boats," ISNA news agency reported a tweet from Mohsen Rezaei as saying.
 (Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
“But he will, when I speak, be nameless.” 
With those words, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand said today that she would not say the name of the man accused of carrying out the attacks that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch. She said she wanted to deny him the attention he craves.
Ms. Ardern also demanded that online platforms like Facebook do a better job of controlling hateful content. Before the attacks, the gunman published a manifesto to message boards popular with white supremacists, and included a link to a page where live video of the shooting later appeared.
Yesterday: The spokesman for the Islamic State ended nearly six months of silence in calling for retaliation over the mosque attacks.
The president and the German financial institution have had a long, symbiotic and, at times, troubled relationship. As investigators in New York and Washington scrutinize their deals, we looked into that history.
Deutsche Bank gave Mr. Trump more than $2 billion in real estate development loans before he was president, despite pushback from some at the bank. Once he was elected, the lender went into damage-control mode, even telling Wall Street employees not to utter the Trump name.
How we know: Deutsche Bank officials have said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative. Read four takeaways from our investigation.
Response: A Deutsche Bank spokeswoman said, “We remain committed to cooperating with authorized investigations.” The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization, a spokeswoman for which declined to comment.
Promises to expand access to health insurance and to lower health care costs were critical to the party’s success in taking control of the House. 
But as they draft the legislation to fulfill those promises, lawmakers are divided, with many centrist Democrats opposing the concept of single payer, now called Medicare for all, that is favored by progressives.
Closer look: Advisers for the Democratic primary field represent a more diverse and issue-driven generation.
Yesterday: Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic candidate, called for ending the Electoral College.
The record flooding that has killed at least two people is also a dire economic blow to farmers and ranchers already weighed down by falling incomes, rising bankruptcies and the fallout from federal trade policies. 
Floodwaters began to ebb in some parts of the Midwest on Monday, but farm groups said recovery could take months or years.
Quotable: One man in Nebraska, whose family has farmed for five generations, said, “There’s not many farms left like this, and it’s probably over for us too, now. Financially, how do you recover from something like this?”
Explainer: The governors of Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin have declared emergencies, and Iowa’s governor has issued a disaster proclamation. Here’s a look at the science behind the flooding.
AIDS experts agree that, medically, the plan that President Trump announced in February to end the H.I.V. epidemic is sound. But the group most at risk includes gay and bisexual black men and transgender women in the Deep South, and finding and educating them about the disease is rarely easy.
Regi Stevenson, above, works at a clinic in Jackson, Miss., that sees the challenges every day.
Michael Cohen investigation: Federal authorities began scrutinizing President Trump’s former lawyer in 2017, soon after Mr. Trump took office, according to records released today.
Boeing chief speaks: In his first substantive public remarks since one of his company’s jets crashed in Ethiopia, Dennis Muilenburg on Monday extended his condolences to the loved ones of the 157 victims.
Fourth Canadian official quits: The country’s top public servant has stepped down, accused of improperly intervening in a corporate corruption case. The scandal has besieged the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
Attack in the Netherlands: The Dutch police said today that they were still considering terrorism as a motive for a deadly shooting on a tram in the city of Utrecht based partly on a note they discovered.
New York schools: Very few black students have been offered admission to the city’s highly selective public high schools, adding pressure on officials to improve integration.
Snapshot: Above, meet the “Flintstone House.” The town of Hillsborough, Calif., has sued the owner to force the removal of dinosaur statues and other landscaping. “It is one thing to spot this house when driving by on the freeway,” a lawyer for the town said. “It is a different thing to be a neighbor and see it all day, every day.”
C-Span anniversary: Forty years ago today, the network went live with its first broadcast from the House. We spoke with one of C-Span’s two chief executives about its legacy.
N.C.A.A. basketball: For the first time since 2006, Connecticut won’t be a No. 1 seed in the women’s tournament. In another surprise, ESPN leaked the bracket hours early on Monday. (Here’s a printable version.) Baylor, Louisville, Mississippi State and Notre Dame will be the top seeds when the tournament starts on Friday.
Late-night comedy: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that she had asked President Trump to express his “sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.” Stephen Colbert doubted whether that would happen.
What we’re reading: This investigation by Kaiser Health News and Fortune. Christine Spolar, a former editor at Kaiser who is now the international business editor for The Times, writes, “This stunning story is about how the system of electronic health records in the U.S., with $36 billion in government money, has failed us.”
Cook: Rigatoni with wilted greens, bacon and a fried egg makes a hearty pasta dinner.
Watch: Before the final season of “Game of Thrones,” read our ultimate guide to the series.
See: Festering becomes a highly dramatic — and kinetic — art when it’s Isabelle Huppert who’s stewing. See her in the Off Broadway play “The Mother.”
Listen: The music struts while the lyrics bristle in “King James,” from Anderson .Paak’s coming album “Ventura,” writes Jon Pareles.
Smarter Living: We all have rivals in our work lives. But our closest competitors can be our greatest allies. Research shows that athletes, for instance, enhance their performance when facing a rival. Building a supportive relationship with a competitor could elevate your performance further.
Also, we have advice for avoiding the next real estate downturn. 
New Zealanders have lit candles, piled flowers and stood vigil since two mosques were attacked in Christchurch last week, resulting in the death of at least 50 people.
They have also performed the haka.
The ceremonial dance originated with the Maori, the country’s indigenous Polynesian inhabitants. Warriors danced to intimidate opponents with grimaces, chanting and aggressive postures. But there are also hakas of welcome and hakas for funerals.
The form has been embraced by New Zealanders of all origins, most famously by the national rugby team, the All Blacks. Many schools have haka groups, and a national competition is hosted every two years by one of the country’s iwi, or tribes.
A variety of haka forms have been performed for the Christchurch victims. For instance, a biker group, Black Power, used a warlike haka to express solidarity.
Others performed one of the most famous hakas, “Ka mate,” a tribute to life in the face of death.
LONDON — Iran's armed forces condemned on Tuesday the United States' designation of the Revolutionary Guards as a terrorist organization, the semi-official Tasnim news agency reported.
Iran's most senior military body - which also oversees the elite Revolutionary Guards - said in a statement that it "will use all its means to fight" against United States Central Command (CENTCOM).
In response to U.S. President Donald Trump's move to blacklist the Guards, Iran retaliated by designating CENTCOM as a terrorist organization in turn. 
 (Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
The crisis in Venezuela deepens, the U.S. shutdown continues and a hedge fund billionaire sets a real estate record. Here’s the latest: 
A day after an opposition leader proclaimed himself the country’s rightful president, the military declared its loyalty to President Nicolás Maduro, deepening the political crisis.
Details: The Trump administration recognized the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called on nations across the Americas to do the same. (Several, including Canada and Denmark, already have).
Mr. Maduro, in turn, cut ties with the U.S. and ordered American diplomats to leave Venezuela. But the U.S. said it would not heed the order because Mr. Guaidó had invited them to stay.
China, which has invested billions in Venezuela, urged all sides to “resolve their political differences.” Russia warned the U.S. not to intervene in Venezuela’s domestic affairs and Mexico has notably held back on recognizing Mr. Guaidó.
Background: Venezuela’s government has overseen the near-total collapse of its economy. Here’s a primer on how the country got to this dire situation.
What next? Still unclear. Mr. Guaidó said he intended to serve as interim president until the next election. And the Trump administration said it was ready to send the country $20 million in aid. But with the military standing by Mr. Maduro, an analyst told us, commanders appear to have concluded Mr. Maduro has the upper hand for now.
Lawmakers voted against two competing proposals to reopen the government, sending Congressional leaders back to the drawing board for a bipartisan solution to end the impasse.
Details: Each party presented its own measure. The Republican proposal included $5.7 billion in funding for President Trump’s border wall, paired with legal protections for some immigrants. The Democratic proposal would have temporarily reopened the government until Feb. 8, but omitted wall funding.
What’s next? Lawmakers and aides in both parties expressed hope that the double-barreled losses would break the logjam that has gripped Washington since the partial shutdown began. The urgency is mounting, with 800,000 federal workers set to miss their second paycheck on Friday.
House Democrats said they were considering giving Mr. Trump as much as $5.2 billion for border security — but not for a wall.
What about the State of the Union? Mr. Trump agreed to delay the landmark speech, originally scheduled for next Tuesday, until after the government reopens.
Go deeper: Aviation workers’ unions warned that the shutdown presented an “unconscionable” safety threat for air travel. And nearly six weeks in, the shutdown is eroding the good will of highly skilled federal workers who chose public service over higher-paying private employment.
Almost two months after a Chinese researcher, He Jiankui, announced that he had created the first genetically edited babies, scientists are trying to devise international standards that would prevent such experiments in the future.
While most researchers agree that major health and science institutions should act quickly, they differ on the best approach.
Background: Some U.S. researchers said Dr. He told them beforehand about his experiment — in which he disabled a gene in the embryos that allows a person to become infected by H.I.V. — but they were unable to stop him, in part because China’s system is so complex that the scientists didn’t know who to alert. A global system would ideally eliminate that problem.
Why it matters: Scientists fear that genetically edited babies could develop unknown health problems that could be inherited by subsequent generations. They also worry about attempts to alter genes for physical features, intelligence or athletic prowess.
What’s next? The World Health Organization is assembling a panel to create global standards and the World Economic Forum also had a discussion on the issue.
A growing number of start-ups are selling insights gleaned from small, relatively cheap satellites, known as “cube satellites.”
Background: The Chinese province of Guangdong stopped publishing a monthly health report on its manufacturing sector in October, after five consecutive months of declining production amid the trade war with the U.S.
But a small company in San Francisco found a way to get that crucial data using photos and infrared images captured by satellites, and now it’s selling it to hedge funds, banks and other investors.
Why it matters: Satellites already monitor everything from how busy retailers’ parking lots are, to oil tank levels, to illegal mining activity — giving companies a new competitive advantage.
And the niche seems set for further growth: Nearly 730 satellites were launched in the last decade, and another 2,220 are expected to follow in the next ten years.
Afghanistan: U.S. and Taliban negotiators are close to striking a deal in which American troops would withdraw in exchange for a pledge from the insurgents that the country wouldn’t become a terrorist base again, officials said. Though many details remain unclear, Western diplomats said they expected an announcement imminently.
China: The Foreign Ministry said Yang Hengjun, the Australian writer detained this week, was suspected of “endangering national security” — making him the third foreigner held on that sweeping charge. Australian Embassy officials in Beijing have been pushing for access to him.
Censorship: China appears to have blocked Microsoft’s search engine, Bing, despite the company’s efforts to comply with the country’s restrictions — a potential sign that Western companies can do little to persuade Beijing to let them into the world’s largest internet market.
Renault: The French carmaker announced new leadership a day after Carlos Ghosn resigned as chairman and chief executive from his Tokyo jail cell. Jean-Dominique Senard, the new chairman, and Thierry Bolloré, the new C.E.O., are tasked with mending Renault’s alliance with Nissan. Here’s what’s at stake.
Indonesia: A Christian politician from the capital city of Jakarta was released from prison after serving two years for blasphemy against Islam, a case that led to vast protests against the former governor and highlighted the rise of political Islam in the country.
Malaysia: The ousted former Prime Minister Najib Razak, who now faces dozens of corruption-related charges, pleaded his case to the public in a music video. He posted his Malay-language rendition of the R&B hit “Kiss and Say Goodbye,” with new lyrics, on Facebook.
North Korea: Kim Jong-un praised President Trump for his “unusual determination” to settle the countries’ nuclear arms dispute through a second summit meeting, according to local news media, and said he would work “step by step” with the U.S.
Ukraine: Former president Viktor Yanukovych was found guilty of treason for inviting Russia to invade the country and reverse a pro-Western revolution five years ago, the first ruling to formally determine he served Russian interests. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison.
$238 million: That’s what a hedge fund billionaire paid for an apartment in New York City — the highest price ever paid for a home in the U.S.
Overlooked no more: Mabel Stark became the world’s most celebrated tiger trainer, spending most of her life among the big cats at circuses and theme parks. She died in 1968 and never received a Times obituary, until now.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Molasses gives ginger cookies a decidedly adult, almost caramel flavor.
Tidy up your digital life with these tips to organize your personal tech.
Become less angry by learning to slow down.
Robert Burns, the Scottish poet, was born on this day in 1759. He wrote hundreds of poems and songs before his life was cut short by illness, including the New Year’s Eve favorite “Auld Lang Syne.” 
His use of vernacular is a barrier for English speakers, but it is difficult to overstate the esteem he commands in Scotland and in the hearts of expatriates like this writer, who grew up in Burns’s home of Ayrshire. 
His verses gave dignity and voice to the disenfranchised, and he is beloved for his romanticism and sense of humor. Scots around the world celebrate his birth with “Burns suppers.”
The most elaborate celebrations feature pipers marching in with a haggis (a traditional concoction of minced offal, oatmeal and spices) to a standing ovation. The host recites Burns’s praise-filled “Address to a Haggis.” Eating and toasts from the “laddies” and “lassies” follow.
So tonight, whatever is on your plate, join me in a toast to Scotland’s best-loved son. 
Jeanie Kay, a designer on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. 
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
China builds a database of Uighurs’ DNA, a fire in Bangladesh fits a disturbing pattern and Karl Lagerfeld’s cat expects a comfortable inheritance. Here’s the latest: 
The country is collecting genetic material as part of its vast campaign of oppression of Muslim minority groups. Critics say the DNA could be used to track and chase down whoever resists conforming. 
To help it build out the DNA database, China used equipment from a U.S. company, Thermo Fisher, and also got material from a prominent Yale geneticist to compare Uighur DNA with genetic material from people around the world.
How it works: Under the guise of free medical checkups in the western region of Xinjiang, where much of the population is Uighur, the government collected DNA samples, images of irises and other personal data of tens of millions of people.
In some cases, people were told the checkups were mandatory.
Background: In 2016, the government embarked on a campaign to shift the Muslim orientation of Uighurs and other minority groups into support for the Communist Party, detaining up to a million people in what it calls “re-education” camps — efforts that have been widely condemned around the world.
The response: Thermo Fisher said it would stop selling equipment in Xinjiang. And the Yale researcher said he had believed that the Chinese authorities were operating within scientific norms that require the informed consent of DNA donors.
A blaze ripped through a crowded, historic neighborhood in the capital city of Dhaka, killing 110 people.
Witnesses said it was set off after a gas cylinder stored at the back of a car exploded. Plastics at a nearby store and chemicals stored illegally at another store fed the flames that eventually engulfed everything in its path.
Background: Devastating fires and safety disasters are all too common in the country. In 2010, more than 120 people died in a fire in Dhaka that started when an electrical transformer exploded and ignited illegally stored chemicals — a strikingly similar situation to the recent blaze.
In 2012, a fire at a garment factory on the outskirts of Dhaka burned for more than 17 hours, killing more than 115 people.
Government action: Officials have repeatedly vowed to take action against safety violations. But the promises lack any teeth because of lax enforcement on the ground and, sometimes, corruption as business owners pay off officials and regulators.
The country’s former intelligence chief called President Nicolás Maduro a dictator with a corrupt inner circle, one of the most public rejections to date.
In an interview with The Times, Hugo Carvajal urged the military to break with Mr. Maduro ahead of a showdown with the opposition on Saturday, when tons of aid from the United States and other countries is slated to arrive.
“How is it that having the power to allow the entry of international humanitarian aid to our country to save lives, you would decide not to?” he said in a separate statement he released on video. “Would you be so inhuman? So hypnotized?”
Complications: On Thursday, Mr. Maduro ordered the closure of Venezuela’s border with Brazil and blocked air and sea traffic from three Caribbean islands to stop aid.
Go deeper: An estimated three million people have left Venezuela — largely on foot — fleeing an economic crisis that has created dangerous shortages of food, water, electricity and medicines.
The Chinese technology company said it would hire 200 new employees in Canada — a 20 percent increase of its workforce there.
The new hires are part of an expansion of Huawei’s research and development efforts in Canada as it tries to secure a place in the development of the country’s 5G network.
The U.S. has been pushing its Western allies to ditch Huawei, a company that it claims Beijing uses for espionage.
Trend: Britain has not ruled out using Huawei to build out its 5G network, suggesting that the international alliances the U.S. has damaged with various unilateral actions may be shrinking its influence.
The U.S. perspective: On Thursday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned that the U.S. would reconsider its relations with countries that choose Huawei to build out their networks.
“If a country adopts this and puts it in some of their critical information systems, we won’t be able to share information with them, we won’t be able to work alongside them,” he said.
That could threaten the so-called Five Eyes security arrangement, in which the U.S. and four other close allies, including Britain and Canada, share intelligence.
Complications: The American effort to shut out Huawei — as well as the arrest of the company’s top executive, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada — have added to the intricate nature of U.S.-China trade talks, which continue in Washington over the next two days.
The Vatican: Pope Francis called for “concrete and effective measures” to address clerical sexual abuse at the start of a historic four-day conference at the Vatican, with his moral authority in question and his papal legacy in the balance.
India: The country appears determined to follow through on a threat to cut back Pakistan’s water supply after two recent attacks on Indian troops in Kashmir. A top official said the Indus River, which provides water for hundreds of millions of people across the subcontinent, could be diverted.
U.S.: A Coast Guard officer and self-described white nationalist who was arrested last week was plotting to kill a long list of journalists and Democratic politicians, prosecutors said, describing him as a “domestic terrorist.” 
Johnson & Johnson: The U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating concerns about possible asbestos contamination of the company’s popular baby powder and other talc-based products. The company faces about 13,000 lawsuits around the world in which its body powders are blamed for causing ovarian cancer or mesothelioma.
Jussie Smollett: The “Empire” actor, upset by his salary and seeking publicity, staged an assault after writing himself a threatening letter, the Chicago police said. A visibly angry police superintendent said the hoax had taken advantage of the pain and anger of racism and had drained resources needed to investigate real crimes.
Gay rights: The U.S. ambassador to Germany, the most prominent openly gay diplomat in the Trump administration, said he planned to lead a new effort to decriminalize homosexuality around the world.
Mueller investigation: The special counsel is expected to turn in his report to the new attorney general within weeks. In an Op-Ed, the acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama argues that it will most likely act as a “road map” for more investigations, rather than the beginning of their end.
New Zealand: A Chinese state newspaper published an opinion piece by a former prime minister, Jenny Shipley, that hailed Beijing’s achievements. But there was one problem: She didn’t write it.
WeWork: The co-working company’s rapid growth around the world isn’t just because it offers businesses office space but because it has cultivated a “corporate culture” that brings together the patchwork of freelancers, entrepreneurs and large companies into a cohesive whole.
China: A teenage girl bought a robot that could mimic her handwriting and do parts of her homework for her, sparking a debate on social media about whether she cheated or found a clever solution.
Karl Lagerfeld’s cat: Choupette, the designer’s immensely pampered and incredibly famous white Birman, is expected to receive a substantial inheritance.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: End the week with Italian flourless chocolate cake.Dairy products contribute about 3.5 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions per year, so switching to plant-based options can decrease your footprint.
You don’t have to break your workout routine when you’re traveling. Here are some exercises that you can do in any hotel room.
A reader recently asked us about a trader pictured at the New York Stock Exchange who looked familiar. The reader was right: Peter Tuchman, below, is one of the most photographed traders on the floor.
“I think about Tuchman more than any other person when I think about the stock market,” said Jeenah Moon, a photographer who shoots the exchange, and Mr. Tuchman, on occasion.
There are currently 233 active traders licensed with the exchange, but Ms. Moon usually sees a far smaller number at work. Among them, Mr. Tuchman, a broker since 1988, stands out.
In an email, Mr. Tuchman said that he “wears his emotions on his face” and that a resemblance to Albert Einstein “surely brings a lot to the table.”
“I thrive off the adrenaline,” he wrote.
“I’m like a hurricane whirling its way through the floor,” he added. “And I love it, it’s the greatest job on earth.”
Remy Tumin, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
LAHORE, Pakistan — India and Pakistan don’t have to be on the brink of war. Negotiators painstakingly put together a way out of the crisis and a road map for resolution of the Kashmir dispute in the mid-2000s, and we need to get back to it.
Kashmir has been disputed since 1947, with India holding around two-thirds and Pakistan one-third of its territory and both claiming all of it. The unresolved future of the largely Muslim region has led to three wars between the two countries, while frustration with Indian misrule in Indian-controlled Kashmir led to an insurgency supported by Pakistan in 1990. 
India and Pakistan have alternated between phases of intense hostility and moments of calm since 1947. At various points, their leaders have — although unsuccessfully — sought to find ways to resolve their disputes. The insurgency in Kashmir was ebbing by the mid-2000s and India’s prime minister, Manmohan Singh, and Pakistan’s president, Pervez Musharraf, initiated a secret dialogue through trusted aides.
Indian and Pakistani envoys agreed to make the Line of Control, the heavily militarized border between the Indian and Pakistani-controlled portions of Kashmir, irrelevant by giving the Kashmiris the right to free movement and trade across the line. They agreed upon providing autonomy to Kashmir’s subregions and drawing down forces as violence receded. They also agreed to establish a body of Kashmiris, Indians and Pakistanis, vaguely described as a “joint mechanism,” to oversee the political and economic rights of the Kashmiris on both sides of the line.
Unfortunately, negotiators had little time to build support for the deal. In the spring of 2007, President Musharraf, stung by rulings that challenged his military government, fired the chief justice of Pakistan’s Supreme Court, setting off nationwide protests by lawyers that led to his ouster in August 2008. With General Musharraf gone, the peace plan fell apart. It was the closest the two countries came to resolving the dispute.
Around three months later, militants belonging to the Pakistan-based group Lashkar-e-Taiba mounted attacks in Mumbai that resulted in the deaths of at least 174 people and killed any remaining hopes of renewed peace talks. Relations between the two countries deteriorated further as Pakistan refused to hand over suspects in the attacks.
In 2014, the Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi became prime minister of India. In his first address to the United Nations General Assembly, in September 2014, he announced that India was withdrawing from peace talks with Pakistan until it agreed to talks in “an atmosphere of peace without a shadow of terrorism.”
Mr. Modi proceeded to adopt a scorched-earth strategy in Kashmir and closed all doors for dialogue with Kashmiri politicians. His use of brute force signaled that no discussion on the unresolved future of Kashmir is allowed and it is considered a settled, integral part of India.
A crackdown by Indian security forces led to hundreds of Kashmiris being killed, blinded and arrested. Not surprisingly, since Mr. Modi has come to power an increasing number of young Kashmiris have joined the militants.
Across the border, despite international opprobrium, Pakistan failed to keep its numerous pledges to curtail Islamic extremist groups — Kashmir-focused groups such as Jaish-e-Muhammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba and also the Afghan Taliban — operating from the country.
The United States stopped economic aid to Pakistan and made sales of military equipment to the country conditional on its cooperation with counterterrorism efforts. The intergovernmental Financial Action Task Force put Pakistan on its “gray list” of countries that have not fulfilled their obligations to curb terrorist activities; Islamabad has allowed organizations listed as terrorist groups by the United Nations to operate as charities.
 Pakistan has been suffering from a severe economic crisis and has been desperately trying to raise some $20 billion from friends, allies and the International Monetary Fund. And then, in February, came a suicide attack in Kashmir, claimed by Jaish-e-Muhammad, that killed dozens of Indian soldiers. 
Several Western diplomats in Islamabad believe the Pakistani Army’s insistence that it had nothing to do with the attack in Kashmir, which might have been independently carried out by the militant group. But that raises a troubling question: If Islamabad had nothing to do with the attack, does that mean it has lost control of the militants?
Prime Minister Imran Khan has shown willingness to discuss all questions including terrorism with New Delhi. On Tuesday, Pakistan announced that it would seize and freeze the assets of militant groups and individuals designated as terrorists by the United Nations. Pakistan arrested 44 people, including Mufti Abdul Rauf, the brother of Masood Azhar, the chief of Jaish-e-Muhammad. There was no word of Mr. Azhar himself, who remains in Pakistan.
Although India indicated that it wouldn’t pursue military options for now, New Delhi has shared a list of suspects with Pakistan and wants it to take credible, verifiable action to undermine militant groups’ capacity for cross-border terrorism. Islamabad has also placed Jamaat-ud-Dawa and the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation, two offshoots of Lashkar-e-Taiba operating as charities, on its list of proscribed organizations.
It is unlikely that Mr. Modi, who faces an election in April and feels the political need to act tough on Pakistan, will budge from his hard-line position until after the elections.
Pakistan should prosecute the perpetrators of the Kashmir attack. And once India forms a new government, the United States, Britain and the United Nations, whose response to the current crisis has been slow, must encourage India to restart dialogue with Mr. Khan. 
Simultaneously, Islamabad must start dismantling the terrorist groups operating from its soil. Mr. Modi must stop his relentless use of lethal force in Kashmir and end his stubborn refusal to hold talks.
A return to back-channel diplomacy is necessary, and the Musharraf-Manmohan peace process needs to be dusted off and looked at again.  It offers a way forward, an alternative to a war that would put both India and Pakistan in jeopardy.
DUBAI — Iran warned on Monday that Washington's designation of its elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization could endanger peace and stability in the Middle East and beyond, state TV reported.
Tehran also took retaliatory action by naming the United States Central Command (CENTCOM) as a terrorist organization and the U.S. government as a sponsor of terror. 
"This unwise and illegal measure is a major threat to regional and international stability and peace ... Iran labels the American regime as a supporter of terrorism," Iran's Supreme National Security Council said in a statement. 
U.S. President Donald Trump designated Iran's Guards a foreign terrorist organization on Monday -- an unprecedented step that will raise tensions in the Middle East.
Iranian authorities have said the U.S. decision is a great mistake that will endanger U.S. interests in the region, where Iran is involved in proxy wars from Syria to Lebanon.
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Twitter that the move was aimed at securing the re-election of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday.
"Another misguided election-eve gift to Netanyahu", and another "dangerous US misadventure in the region", Zarif tweeted. 
Iranian Revolutionary Guards commanders have repeatedly said that U.S. bases in the Middle East and U.S. aircraft carriers in the Gulf are within range of Iranian missiles. 
Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz in the Gulf if the United States tries to strangle Tehran's economy by halting its oil exports.
 (Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by Catherine Evans)
WASHINGTON — Top Democrats on Saturday rushed to defend Rep. Ilhan Omar after President Donald Trump retweeted video that was edited to suggest she was being dismissive of the significance of the worst terrorist assault on U.S. soil.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi scolded Trump for using the "painful images of 9/11 for a political attack" against the first-term Minnesota Democrat.
And presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren, campaigning in New Hampshire, accused Trump of "trying to incite violence and to divide us, and every political leader should speak out against that."
The video Trump retweeted Friday pulls a snippet of Omar's recent speech to the Council on American-Islamic Relations in which she described the 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center as "some people did something," and includes news footage of the hijacked planes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump also tweeted, "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!"
Omar's remark has drawn criticism largely from political opponents and conservatives who say the lawmaker, one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress, offered a flippant description of the assailants and the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people.
Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included her full quote or the context of her comments.
Omar told CAIR in Los Angeles that many Muslims saw their civil liberties eroded after the attacks, and she advocated for activism.
"For far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and, frankly, I'm tired of it, and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it," she said in the March 23 speech, according to video posted online. "CAIR was founded after 9/11 because they recognized that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties."
CAIR was founded in 1994, according to its website, but its membership skyrocketed after the attacks.
Many Republicans and conservative outlets expressed outrage at Omar's remarks. Fellow Democrats, including some who have disagreed with Omar in the past, defended her.
"First Member of Congress to ever describe terrorists who killed thousands of Americans on 9/11 as 'some people who did something,'" tweeted Rep. Dan Crenshaw, R-Texas. The retired Navy SEAL lost his right eye in 2012 in an explosion in Afghanistan.
"Here's your something," the New York Post blared on its cover beneath a photograph of the flaming towers.
Pelosi, who was in Germany visiting U.S. troops Saturday, said in a statement that "the memory of 9/11 is sacred ground" and should always be discussed "with reverence." The California Democrat said it is wrong for Trump to "fan the flames to make anyone less safe."
Omar didn't appear to be backing down.
She tweeted a quote from President George W. Bush, who said days after the attacks: "The people — and the people who knocked these buildings down will hear all of us soon!"
"Was Bush downplaying the terrorist attack?" Omar tweeted. "What if he was a Muslim."
Several of the 2020 Democratic presidential candidates condemned Trump's tweet.
Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke, said the Republican president's tweet was an "incitement to violence" against Omar, who is Muslim-American, and others like her. O'Rourke, campaigning in South Carolina, likened the tweet to Trump's rhetoric about Mexicans, described in the past by Trump as murderers and rapists. O'Rourke said "there is a cost and there is a consequence" to Trump's comments.
Warren, a Massachusetts senator, said Republican leaders in Congress "cannot take a pass on this, cannot look the other way and pretend it isn't happening. It is happening. And those who don't speak out in the Republican leadership are complicit in what he is doing. It's wrong."
Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar noted that a New York man recently was charged with threatening Omar's life.
"The video the president chose to send out today will only incite more hate," Klobuchar said. "You can disagree with her words — as I have done before — but this video is wrong. Enough."
Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont said Omar "won't back down to Trump's racism and hate, and neither will we."
Omar repeatedly has pushed fellow Democrats into uncomfortable territory over Israel and the strength of the Jewish state's influence in Washington. She apologized for suggesting that lawmakers support Israel for pay and said she isn't criticizing Jews. But she refused to take back a tweet in which she suggested American supporters of Israel "pledge allegiance" to a foreign country.
Her comments sparked an ugly episode among House Democrats after they responded with a resolution condemning anti-Semitism and the measure became a broader declaration against all forms of bigotry.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump would not commit in an interview aired Sunday to making public the results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s ties to his campaign, adding that it was time to “get rid” of the inquiry.
In the interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Mr. Trump reiterated his belief that the attorney general would determine whether the public would see the results of the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But he would not say whether he would be comfortable with the results being made public.
“I don’t know,” the president said. “It depends. I have no idea what it’s going to say.”
The law does not require the Justice Department to release a report, and Mr. Mueller has been silent on the issue. Last month, Trump advisers were pleased that William P. Barr, Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, opened the door to the possibility that the special counsel’s report could be shielded from the public during a Senate confirmation hearing.
Mr. Trump’s wide-ranging interview with Margaret Brennan, the show’s host, was conducted days after the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, said the investigation was nearing its end, and amid stagnant negotiations with Democrats over Mr. Trump’s demand for a border wall. Mr. Trump indicated at various points in the interview that he would use the power of his office to solve that matter and others facing his presidency.
Among those matters, the president appeared to suggest, are national security and the military. He called the use of military force against Venezuela “an option.” And he indicated that he would like to keep troops in Iraq — a striking departure from his push to withdraw from Afghanistan and Syria — to “keep an eye” on Iran.
“It’s perfectly situated for looking at all over different parts of the troubled Middle East rather than pulling up,” Mr. Trump said. “We’re going to keep watching and we’re going to keep seeing and if there’s trouble, if somebody is looking to do nuclear weapons or other things, we’re going to know it before they do.”
On the border wall fight, the president reiterated his belief that “we have now set the table” to take action after a short-term deal to fund part of the government — a deal struck to end the longest government shutdown in history — expires on Feb. 15. In an interview with The New York Times on Thursday, Mr. Trump suggested that he had successfully made the case to Americans that the problem at the border was enough to constitute declaring a national emergency, and that Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, was doing a “disservice” to the country — both points he again made on Sunday.
“People that didn’t have any idea,” Mr. Trump said. “They didn’t have a clue as to what was happening. They now know exactly what’s happening.”
Mr. Trump is expected to make immigration a cornerstone of his State of the Union speech, which is scheduled for Tuesday. In the interview with CBS, Mr. Trump once again accused Democrats, in particular Ms. Pelosi, of ignoring urgent problems at the border, which included human trafficking and what Mr. Trump called an “invasion” of human traffickers into the country.
Though Mr. Trump seems intent on ignoring congressional negotiations, lawmakers insisted on Sunday that they were still trying. Senator Richard C. Shelby, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a member of the committee working to reach a deal, admitted that it was too early to say whether the negotiations could be successful.
“I think that the president is dead set on keeping his campaign promise,” Mr. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” He acknowledged that Mr. Trump probably had some legal merits for declaring a national emergency over the border wall, but he pleaded for the committee to be allowed to do its work.
“If people leave us alone,” Mr. Shelby added, “we’ll get this done by Wednesday night.”
He said that the committee had invited experts with knowledge of the southwestern border to testify this week on exactly what is needed for border security. Mr. Shelby expressed optimism that hearing from those experts “could move us off of” the semantic debate over a wall or fencing.
“It’s a question of how do we get off the politics and on to the substance,” he said.
Other members of the bipartisan committee — Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas, and Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota — doubled down on their respective party’s positions on “Fox News Sunday.” Mr. Cuellar, who represents parts of the border, dismissed the president’s reasoning for the wall as built on “a false premise.”
In the CBS interview, Mr. Trump fought back against criticism of his wall and other policies. He responded to warnings that his administration was risking a resurgence of terrorist groups by promising the rapid withdrawal of troops from Syria and Afghanistan by saying that he “ran against 17 Republicans” and won.
“I’ll leave intelligence there,” Mr. Trump said, “and if I see nests forming, I’ll do something about it.”
Last week, Mr. Trump showed similar defiance in suggesting that his intelligence chiefs “go back to school” for issuing a threat assessment saying that North Korea was unlikely to give up its nuclear program and that Iran is not, for now, taking steps necessary to make a bomb.
Mr. Trump said that he would ultimately rely on his own counsel if he disagreed with intelligence assessments.
The president also indicated that the power of his affectionate letter writing with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, might persuade Mr. Kim to drop his nuclear plans. Mr. Trump has at least six letters from Mr. Kim that he enjoys sharing with people who visit him in the Oval Office.
“We have had tremendous correspondence that some people have seen and can’t even believe it,” Mr. Trump said. “Now that doesn’t mean we’re going to make a deal. But certainly I think we have a very good chance of making a deal.”
Other leaders did not receive such praise. Mr. Trump said that he had declined a meeting with Nicolás Maduro, the embattled president of Venezuela, days after the Trump administration said it recognized Juan Guaidó, the 35-year-old opposition figure, as the country’s rightful leader.
“I decided at the time, ‘no,’ because so many really horrible things have been happening in Venezuela when you look at that country,” Mr. Trump said.
With his cabinet in flux, Mr. Trump dismissed as “fake news” the reports that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had asked Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state and his most visible emissary in negotiations with North Korea, to consider leaving to run for a Senate seat in Kansas.
Mr. Pompeo confirmed that discussion over a week ago. The secretary of state said that he had appreciated the call, but that he had a “very full plate.”
The CBS interview was broadcast during the president’s first visit in months to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, where he spent Saturday golfing with Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus. On Sunday, the president hit the golf course again amid planning for his annual Super Bowl party.
The president told CBS that he loved to watch football, but that he would not encourage his youngest son, Barron, 12, to participate in such a dangerous sport.
SAN FRANCISCO — In July 2013, a broadcaster affiliated with the Islamist group Hezbollah posted a threatening video on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. It featured gun-toting militants practicing an ambush to kidnap Israeli soldiers. The message: This is how we kill you.
In December, the broadcaster posted another video that showed how Hezbollah’s social media strategy had changed. This one contained close-up footage of Israeli soldiers on patrol, with no Hezbollah members visible. The message was also dialed back: We are watching you.
Hezbollah is among dozens of groups classified by the United States as terrorist entities that have learned how to stay a step ahead of the social media giants. In the past, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter have taken down the official pages of these militant groups dozens of times and banned their accounts.
But Hamas and Hezbollah, in particular, have evolved by getting their supporters to publish images and videos that deliver their message — but that do not set off the alarm bells of the social media platforms. Today, the groups mostly post images of festive parades and religious celebrations online, as well as videos of speeches by their leaders.
That has allowed Hamas and Hezbollah, as well as groups like the East African-based Shabab, to proliferate largely unchecked on social media, even as a clampdown by Facebook and others has neutered the online presences of the terror organizations that are the most threatening to the West — the Islamic State and Al Qaeda.
The change thrusts Facebook, YouTube and Twitter into complicated territory. Unlike Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, Hamas and Hezbollah are political forces in their territories. Hamas has governance duties in the Gaza Strip, in addition to its militancy. Hezbollah is a recognized political party in Lebanon. And by no longer posting overtly violent material, the groups arguably merit a different treatment by the social media companies.
Facebook and others said they typically adhered to the designations set by the United States on terrorist groups, citing how any online presence — even a seemingly innocuous or benign post — helps legitimize them and increase their visibility. Even so, it has proved difficult for the companies to follow the rules they set for themselves, precisely because the groups can be deemed political organizations or terrorist entities, depending on one’s perspective.
“There has to be a differentiation in the way we understand how different groups use social media,” said Lina Khatib, the head of the Middle East and North Africa program at Chatham House, the London think tank.
That complexity has dismayed Israel, which has fought several wars against Hamas and Hezbollah. Since 2015, Israeli legal groups and their partners in the United States have filed at least three lawsuits against Facebook, accusing it of turning a blind eye to how the militant organizations use the social network.
In November, the Israel legal center Shurat HaDin, which previously had filed some of these cases, threatened to sue Facebook again if the company continued to let a Hamas-linked broadcaster share content on the site.
“The mere fact that Hamas affiliates still have Facebook pages shows you that Facebook does not care,” said Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, founder of Shurat HaDin, adding she would not hesitate to take her cases to the Supreme Court. “We argue that anything at all Hamas posts is terrorist content.”
The social media companies could face other penalties from the thriving activity of the groups and their supporters on their networks. The European Union is considering a new law that would fine tech companies if they did not remove terrorist content from their sites within one hour of being notified of its presence.
Brian Fishman, Facebook’s global head of counterterrorism, said the social network had zero tolerance for any group that the United States listed as a terrorist entity. He added that the company had removed 99 percent of Islamic State and Al Qaeda content largely by using artificial intelligence.
But Mr. Fishman also suggested that posts by organizations like Hezbollah could fall through the cracks because the groups stopped short of issuing direct threats of violence.
“If we have to make a hard prioritization decision, we’re going to focus on stuff that directly calls for violence,” he said. “The blunt truth is that it is very difficult” to weed out.
Twitter did not respond to questions about activity by Hezbollah and other militant groups on its service. It referred to a transparency report detailing how it had suspended 205,156 accounts for promoting terrorism in the first half of 2018. A YouTube spokeswoman said the company had removed channels for promoting violence or violent extremism and barred groups that the United States labeled terrorists.
Hezbollah and Hamas did not respond to requests for comment.
The issue of militant groups on social media came to the fore in 2013 when the Islamic State grabbed global attention by posting videos of beheadings and bombings online. The Islamic State also used the channels to spread propaganda and to recruit followers.
Groups like Hamas and Hezbollah do not primarily use social media to recruit, Ms. Khatib said, but to intimidate their enemies and rally their supporters.
Tech companies said they had always barred these groups from their platforms. But the organizations continued posting to social media anyway.
Around 2015, the tech companies started making some headway in removing Islamic State and Qaeda content, according to counterterrorism experts. The companies created dedicated teams and used A.I. tools to find and eliminate posts from the Islamist groups.
But the companies did not reckon with the organizations’ abilities to manipulate their platforms by posting material that went up to, but did not cross, the line of being flagged by users or outside observers. Many of the groups also use proxies, such as media organizations or local charities, to post content on the platforms for them.
Hezbollah and Hamas, in particular, have honed their social media strategies to foster their online presences.
Hezbollah, which now has no official accounts on the big social media platforms, largely shares through Al Manar, a broadcaster with strong pro-Hezbollah ties. Al Manar has a Twitter feed, which is followed by 481,000 people. Content from the channel is easy to find on YouTube, including many lengthy speeches by Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah.
A recent search on YouTube for Al Manar in Arabic yielded over 37,000 results. Many of those videos have tens of thousands of views and have been on the site for years.
Hamas enjoys a similar widespread presence on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. The group has a Twitter feed, though not a Facebook page or a YouTube account. Many of its leaders have personal social media accounts, where they post commentaries, photos and videos.
The Hamas television station, Al Aqsa, also has a Twitter feed and a Facebook page. And on Instagram, the photo-sharing site owned by Facebook, popular Arabic-language hashtags promoting Hamas feature thousands of propaganda videos and images.
When conflicts with Israel escalate, Hamas’s presence on social media also rises. In August, Israel accused Hamas members of posing as attractive women on Instagram to lure Israeli soldiers into sharing details about themselves and to download malware.
Israel called the campaign Operation Broken Heart. It showed, Israeli officials said, how dangerous it was to allow militant organizations to use social media.
MILAN — Authorities on Wednesday arrested an Italian convert to Islam and a Moroccan resident who met over the Internet and were preparing to fight with Islamic State in Syria.
Sicilian prosecutors who ordered the arrests said investigators had identified the Italian suspect, 25-year-old Giuseppe Frittatta, from social media posts. They included extremist propaganda as well as photos of himself holding a knife with a 26-centimeter (10-inch) blade calling for deaths to "all westerners."
The 18-year-old Moroccan, Ossama Gafhir, is alleged to have induced Frittatta toward extremism, and was following stringent fitness routine to prepare for combat.
Frittata — a Sicilian who changed his name to Yusef — allegedly was in contact with extremists in Italy and abroad, including an American that prosecutors are trying to identify who provided Islamic State battlefield details.
The arrests were carried out in northern Italy.
Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said the arrests reinforced his decision to close Italian ports to humanitarian rescue boats with migrants, "seeing that we already have potential terrorists at home."
Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte, who met Tuesday with the deputy premier of Libya's U.N.-backed government, Ahmed Maitig, said renewed fighting could create a "humanitarian crisis that could expose our country to the risk of arrivals by foreign fighters."
Salvini told reporters that some 500 "terrorists" were in Libyan jails, adding "we don't want to see them arrive by sea."
However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.
On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors call
On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, a
Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make voters
The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,
The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reached
The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend because
In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.
“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.
Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”
The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.
Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.
Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”
Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.
“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”
Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:
Trump, Feldman noted,
Feldman posed the question:
Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.
Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.
“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: 
Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”
Increasingly, he argued, the party has become
In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”
According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,
In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:
I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.
Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.
“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”
He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.
Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.
Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.
Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.
Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.
How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.
Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”
Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:
The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.
On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.
The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.
Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”
One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.
The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”
Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.
Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.
Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:
Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”
TEHRAN — A suicide bomber killed at least 27 members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and wounded 13 on a bus in a restive region of southeast Iran on Wednesday, Iranian media reported. It was among the deadliest attacks in Iran in years.
The Revolutionary Guards, an elite Iranian paramilitary force, quickly blamed the United States for the assault, which came during the week that Iran’s leaders have been celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution, which overthrew the American-backed shah in 1979.
The Revolutionary Guards did not explain precisely how the Americans could have been involved in the attack. But Iranian officials suggested it was more than coincidental that it happened as the Trump administration was hosting an anti-Iran-themed meeting in Poland that included delegations from Iran’s regional adversaries, Israel and Saudi Arabia.
Dispatches by the official Islamic Republic News Agency and the Fars News Agency said the victims had been traveling between the cities of Zahedan and Khash near the Pakistan border, a haven for militant separatist groups and drug smugglers.
There were conflicting accounts of the casualties, which often happens in Iran immediately after calamities. Fars initially reported that at least 20 people had died, then updated the death toll to at least 41 — suggesting that everyone on the bus had been killed. Without explanation, Fars later adjusted the toll to 27 dead and 13 wounded, consistent with what the Revolutionary Guards and other news services were saying.
Fars said a bomber driving a car full of explosives on a highway had detonated it near the bus, and a video posted on the agency’s website showed what it said were the charred remains of the bus.
On the social messaging app Telegram, a militant Sunni extremist group called Jaish al-Adl claimed responsibility for the attack, but officials did not confirm that the group was involved. Jaish al-Adl, which means Army of Justice, has links to Al Qaeda and has operated in southeast Iran for years.
A statement issued by the Revolutionary Guards said the bus had been “carrying the warriors of Islam soldiers who were returning from the region to their cities after completing their border mission.”
While the United States and Israel have accused Iran of fomenting terrorism in the Middle East, Iran itself has also been the target of terrorist attacks since the Islamic Revolution.
Last September, gunmen killed at least 25 people and wounded 60 in an assault on a military parade in Ahvaz, in southwestern Iran, where Arab separatists are active. The victims were a mix of Revolutionary Guards members and civilian onlookers.
Less than two years ago, armed assailants, some disguised as women, stormed the Parliament building and the tomb of Iran’s revolutionary founder, in coordinated assaults that left at least 12 people dead. The Islamic State claimed responsibility, boasting that the attacks were its first ever against Iran, where the Shiite Muslim majority is loathed by the Islamic State’s Sunni extremist ideologues.
A southeastern Iranian province, Sistan and Baluchistan, is home to several extremist Sunni groups such as Jaish al-Adl that have committed sporadic bombings, assassinations and other attacks on Iranian security forces and officials.
The latest attack came against the backdrop of a two-day diplomatic meeting in Warsaw organized by the United States and aimed partly at pressuring and isolating Iran.
Iranian leaders have often accused the United States and its key Middle East allies, Saudi Arabia and Israel, of supporting armed opposition groups inside Iran with money, intelligence and weapons. Representatives of at least one Iranian opposition group, the Mujahedeen Khalq, or M.E.K., which has advocated regime change in Iran and was once considered a terrorist organization by the United States, were present at the Warsaw meeting.
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of Iran, in a posting on his Twitter account, quickly drew a link between the Warsaw meeting and the deadly bus attack.
“Is it no coincidence that Iran is hit by terror on the very day that #WarsawCircus begins?” he wrote. “Especially when cohorts of same terrorists cheer it from Warsaw streets & support it with twitter bots? US seems to always make the same wrong choices, but expect different results.”
A well-known Iranian hard-line politician, Hamid Reza Taraghi, also drew a connection between the attack and Iran’s most outspoken adversaries, including Maryam Rajavi, a leader-in-exile of the M.E.K. who sent a video message of support to  the group’s “Free Iran” opposition rally in Warsaw.
Mr. Taraghi said “dozens of terrorist plots” intended to be carried out on Monday, when Iran officially celebrated the Islamic Revolution anniversary, had been foiled by Iranian intelligence services.
The bus bombing was “not a big deal militarily, but this suicidal attack in the border area is a cowardly act,” Mr. Taraghi said. “For sure Saudi Arabia, America and MEK must be blamed.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Congress finds out what’s in the Mueller report, Thailand’s military appears to have won elections and Brexit continues to confound a nation. Here’s the latest:
Attorney General William Barr sent lawmakers a summary of the special counsel’s highly anticipated report on Russian interference during the 2016 presidential election. The key findings will be made public later today.
This much is clear: The Mueller report established no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, but left it to Mr. Barr to determine whether President Trump's actions constituted obstruction of justice. Mr. Barr found that they did not.
Our Washington Bureau is assessing the summary in greater detail now, and we’ll be updating the news story linked above and our live briefing.
Impact: The report’s delivery “marked a turning point that will shape the remainder of Mr. Trump’s presidency and test the viability of American governance,” our chief White House correspondent writes.
Other investigations: The special counsel, Robert Mueller, issued no further indictments but federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other inquiries that grew out of his work, meaning President Trump hasn’t yet emerged from a looming legal threat.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters took over the streets of Central London on Saturday, calling on lawmakers to break the political stalemate and hold a second referendum on Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U.
Few lawmakers have any appetite for a second public vote, however, so the march’s main impact may be as a reflection of growing popular frustration over the gridlock.
What’s next? Officials in the E.U. gave the British Parliament until April 12 to decide what it wants to do, so Brexit will not take effect on March 29, the date set two years ago.
On the table is Prime Minister Theresa May’s widely unpopular draft plan. If lawmakers approve it by the E.U. deadline, Britain will leave the bloc on May 22.
If not, Britain has three choices: a no-deal Brexit on April 12, no Brexit at all or a longer delay of possibly two more years. Parliament has strongly opposed all of these options, too.
Today: Lawmakers are to vote on proposed amendments to Mrs. May’s plan, including one that would allow for a rapid-fire round of voting on alternatives.
Analysis: Ellen Barry, our London correspondent, looks at how some Brexit supporters have shifted from the original goal of a less restrictive relationship with the E.U. to willingness to walk away from the bloc with no deal at all.
A military-linked party seemed to have emerged as the winner of parliamentary elections, the country’s first vote since a coup in 2014.
With about 90 percent of the ballots counted as of Sunday, Palang Pracharat, the military’s proxy party, had 7.5 million votes, the Election Commission said. Pheu Thai, the populist party toppled in the coup, had been widely expected to finish first, but was second with seven million votes.
The remaining votes will be counted today, but it appears to be the first electoral failure since 2001 of a party aligned with Thaksin Shinawatra, the polarizing former prime minister.
Concerns: More than 5 percent of the ballots were invalidated, raising questions about the integrity of the results. And turnout was 66 percent, lower than the expected 80 percent.
Democracy activists say the new military-backed Constitution worked in favor of the country’s armed forces, which has orchestrated more than a dozen successful coups over the years. Electoral rules blunted the power of some blocs, and the threat of jail time hung over leaders of anti-junta parties.
The voting was for the lower house. The new Constitution gives the military the power to appoint all 250 members of the Senate, so its power in Parliament will be overwhelming.
A four-year military operation to push the terrorist group from Iraq and Syria ended on Saturday when American-backed forces took back the last speck of land in the region controlled by the group.
The end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate, which at its peak was the size of Britain, is a major blow to the group. The group continues to exist, however, as a diffuse insurgency from Afghanistan to the Philippines, and experts say it is more powerful today than it was in 2011, enriched by years of collecting taxes in Iraq and Syria and returning to the guerrilla tactics it used in the past.
By the numbers: The group has tens of thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria as well as followers around the world. Since last summer, it carried out at least 250 attacks in Syria. ISIS followers have carried out attacks in at least 25 countries since 2017.
Recruiting: A modern, educated couple in the Philippines became key recruiters for the Islamic State, calling on followers to wage jihad in Muslim parts of the archipelago.
On the ground: Hours after a U.S.-backed militia announced victory over the Islamic State in Syria, a local driver working with a team of journalists from NBC News was killed in an explosion in the area. It was not immediately clear whether the group had been targeted, or whether previously unexploded ordnance from heavy militia bombing might have been involved.
Boeing: An investigation by The Times looks into how the aircraft manufacturer rushed to develop the 737 Max 8 to keep American Airlines from ordering hundreds of planes from its rival, Airbus, and how the frenetic pace played out for engineers and construction teams.
New Zealand: The country banned the so-called manifesto of the man suspected in the Christchurch massacre, making it a crime to possess or distribute the content in an attempt to limit the spread of hateful ideas and foil his desire for notoriety.
China-E.U. relations: President Xi Jinping secured Italy’s cooperation with his Belt and Road initiative and then headed to France to meet with European leaders, some of whom fear widening internal divisions over China’s increasing reach.
Cambodia: Top E.U. officials visited the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, to consider revoking a special trading deal because of the country’s deteriorating human rights record.
North Korea: The country’s state media escalated calls for South Korea to distance itself from the U.S., as the U.S. sent mixed signals over whether it would tighten or relax sanctions on the North.
Norway: A cruise ship stranded for nearly 24 hours by rough weather and engine trouble finally headed to shore, after about a third of the 1,300 people aboard were airlifted, one by one, to safety.
Coming this week: Apple will unveil its video streaming service on Monday, and Lyft — Uber’s main rival in North America — will make its debut on the stock market on Friday in what could be the tech world’s biggest initial public offering since 2014.
Russia: A marathon across the frozen surface of Lake Baikal in Siberia was a precarious endeavor through unpredictable and grueling conditions. “Baikal prepares new surprises,” said the founder of the race. “That makes it more interesting.”
Perspective: Calling Asian women “adorable,” “cute” or “beautiful” in professional settings is a form of racism that “dresses up its violence in praise,” the author R.O. Kwon argues in an Op-Ed.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: You can always toss roasted broccoli with something delicious, like a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Passion can be a gift or a curse. We have guidance on avoiding obsession as you pursue your most profound interests.
Knees are the body’s most taxed joint. Here are some ways to keep from injuring them.
Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York City’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips only a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain.
The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero.
There was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but it was changed to an S for shuttle in 1992.
The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988.
Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it is gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 as part of new service after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.
As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived after all (for now).
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
President Trump made the right call to withdraw from Syria. The United States withdrawal, however, must be planned carefully and performed in cooperation with the right partners to protect the interests of the United States, the international community and the Syrian people. Turkey, which has NATO’s second largest standing army, is the only country with the power and commitment to perform that task.
In 2016, Turkey became the first country to deploy ground combat troops to fight the so-called Islamic State in Syria. Our military incursion severed the group’s access to NATO’s borders and impeded their ability to carry out terror attacks in Turkey and Europe. 
Unlike coalition operations in Raqqa and Mosul, which relied heavily on airstrikes that were carried out with little or no regard for civilian casualties, Turkish troops and fighters of the Free Syrian Army went door to door to root out insurgents in Al Bab, a former stronghold of the so-called Islamic State.
Our approach left the city’s core infrastructure largely intact and made it possible for life to return to normal within days. Today, children are back at school, a Turkish-funded hospital treats the sick, and new business projects create jobs and bolster the local economy. This stable environment is the only cure for terrorism.
Turkey is committed to defeating the so-called Islamic State and other terrorist groups in Syria, because the Turkish people are all too familiar with the threat of violent extremism. In 2003, when I became prime minister, coordinated attacks by Al Qaeda claimed dozens of lives in Turkey. 
More recently, the so-called Islamic State terrorists targeted our citizens, our way of life and the inclusive, moderate worldview that our civilization represents. A few years back, the terrorist group called me “treacherous Satan.” We saw the horror in the faces of thousands of Christians and Yazidis, who sought refuge in Turkey when these terrorists came for them in Syria and Iraq.
I say this again: There will be no victory for the terrorists. Turkey will continue to do what it must to ensure its own safety and the well-being of the international community.
Militarily speaking, the so-called Islamic State has been defeated in Syria. Yet we are deeply concerned that some outside powers may use the organization’s remnants as an excuse to meddle in Syria’s internal affairs. 
A military victory against the terrorist group is a mere first step. The lesson of Iraq, where this terrorist group was born, is that premature declarations of victory and the reckless actions they tend to spur create more problems than they solve. The international community cannot afford to make the same mistake again today.
Turkey proposes a comprehensive strategy to eliminate the root causes of radicalization. We want to ensure that citizens do not feel disconnected from government, terrorist groups do not get to prey on the grievances of local communities and ordinary people can count on a stable future.
The first step is to create a stabilization force featuring fighters from all parts of Syrian society. Only a diverse body can serve all Syrian citizens and bring law and order to various parts of the country. In this sense, I would like to point out that we have no argument with the Syrian Kurds.
Under wartime conditions, many young Syrians had no choice but to join the P.Y.D./Y.P.G., the Syrian branch of the P.K.K., that Turkey and the United States consider a terrorist organization. According to Human Rights Watch, the Y.P.G. militants have violated international law by recruiting children.
Following the United States withdrawal from Syria, we will complete an intensive vetting process to reunite child soldiers with their families and include all fighters with no links to terrorist organizations in the new stabilization force.
Ensuring adequate political representation for all communities is another priority. Under Turkey’s watch, the Syrian territories that are under the control of the Y.P.G. or the so-called Islamic State will be governed by popularly elected councils. Individuals with no links to terrorist groups will be eligible to represent their communities in local governments.
Local councils in predominantly Kurdish parts of northern Syria will largely consist of the Kurdish community’s representatives whilst ensuring that all other groups enjoy fair political representation. Turkish officials with relevant experience will advise them on municipal affairs, education, health care and emergency services. 
Turkey intends to cooperate and coordinate our actions with our friends and allies. We have been closely involved in the Geneva and Astana processes, and are the sole stakeholder that can work simultaneously with the United States and Russia. We will build on those partnerships to get the job done in Syria.
It is time for all stakeholders to join forces to end the terror unleashed by the Islamic State, an enemy of Islam and Muslims around the world, and to preserve Syria’s territorial integrity. Turkey is volunteering to shoulder this heavy burden at a critical time in history. We are counting on the international community to stand with us. 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
A devastating plane crash in Ethiopia, the increasing toll of U.S. airstrikes in Somalia, and video contradicting an opposition narrative in Venezuela. Here’s the latest: 
All 157 people on board were killed when an Ethiopian Airlines jetliner crashed shortly after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Sunday. Immediately there were questions about the safety of the Boeing 737 Max 8 that crashed; it is the company’s  best-selling model ever. China ordered its airlines to ground all 96 of the aircraft that they operate.
The disaster had similarities to the crash of another Boeing 737 Max in October, a Lion Air jet that crashed off Indonesia, killing all 189 people on board.
In both crashes, trouble appeared to begin almost immediately after takeoff. The pilots told air traffic controllers they were having technical problems, and the planes seemed to repeatedly climb and dive before a final plunge. Early information on Sunday’s crash is incomplete and does not rule out pilot error or a malfunction of another system. 
Background: There are more than 5,000 pending orders for Boeing’s 737 Max, which is a workhorse for airlines and a competitive response to a more efficient engine on the popular Airbus A320. The Max engine was bigger than earlier versions, so Boeing updated the software for the flight control system. After the Lion Air crash, some American aviation authorities said that change had not been adequately explained to pilots. Many airlines have since provided training, but whether Ethiopian Airlines did so was not immediately known.
Aftermath: There was mourning across more than 30 countries for the victims on Sunday’s flight, which was bound for Nairobi, Kenya. Several aid workers from the U.N. and other humanitarian organizations were on board. 
On Tuesday, British lawmakers are scheduled to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s two-part blueprint for the country’s withdrawal from the E.U.
Many expect Parliament to reject her plan again. In all probability, that would leave Britain pleading with the E.U. for an extension — from two months to two years — of the March 29 deadline for divorce.
What’s next? Under Mrs. May’s plan, Britain’s trade relationship with the E.U. would be worked out during a transitional period that expires in December 2020, with the potential for a two-year extension. 
But even if her plan were approved, one expert said, negotiations on trade links with the E.U. and other partners could take at least seven years and stretch to more than double that as competing visions of what Britain will become do battle.
Go deeper: The Brexit vote in 2016 exposed long-growing fissures between the country’s rural and urban populations, as well as the young and the old, and ended up splitting families and friends.
President Trump has been rolling back operations against Islamist insurgencies from Syria to West Africa, with an exception: Somalia. The American military has drastically ramped up a battle against the Shabab, an extremist group affiliated with Al Qaeda that threatens the fragile government in Mogadishu. That has worsened a humanitarian crisis in Somalia, according to U.N. agencies and others. 
During January and February, the U.S. Africa Command reported killing 225 people in 24 airstrikes there — approaching the deaths for all of 2018. The campaign is waged with drones and 500 U.S. troops spread across small bases, in cooperation with 20,000 African Union peacekeepers. At the same time, the U.S. is scaling back almost everywhere else on the continent, in a retreat that particularly threatens West Africa. 
Casualties: The U.S. maintains that its death toll includes only Shabab militants, but the extremist group claims regularly that civilians are also killed. The Times could not independently verify the number of civilians killed. The Shabab, which holds about 20 percent of the country, carried out a terrorist assault in Nairobi in January that killed 21 people and a siege on a hotel in Mogadishu last month that killed 25 people.
Analysis: Brittany Brown, who worked on Somalia policy at the National Security Council in the Obama and Trump administrations, said the “massive war” appeared to be “on autopilot,” with almost no public debate about deepening American involvement.
It was a burning aid truck heard about around the world. On Feb. 23, in a showdown unlike any on the border between Colombia and Venezuela in years, a convoy of aid trucks was blocked by the government of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela. Mr. Maduro’s security forces, along with government-aligned gangs, attacked protesters who wielded rocks and Molotov cocktails, and one of the trucks burst into flames. 
Venezuela’s opposition and many others in the U.S. — including Vice President Mike Pence — held up the burned truck as potent evidence of Mr. Maduro’s cruelty. The State Department released a video saying Mr. Maduro had ordered the truck burned. 
In fact, the opposition itself, not Mr. Maduro’s men, appears to have set the cargo alight accidentally. 
How we know: Unpublished footage obtained by The Times and previously released tapes allowed for a reconstruction of the episode. It suggests that a Molotov cocktail thrown by an antigovernment protester was the most likely cause of the blaze. 
Reaction: The Colombian government, a chief booster of the narrative blaming Mr. Maduro, has promoted a partial video of the fire, but refused The Times’s requests for the full footage. The U.S. has offered a new, more careful statement about what caused the fire, and a U.S. spokesman argued that Mr. Maduro was to blame in any event, for blocking aid. 
Britain: A court sentenced a 37-year-old Ugandan woman to 11 years in prison for the genital cutting of her 3-year-old daughter, after a landmark conviction last month.
India: The government announced that general elections would kick off on April 11 and unfold in seven phases, with results by May 23. It is widely seen as a referendum on the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is running for a second five-year term. 
Pakistan: Two climbers missing for weeks, one British and one Italian, were pronounced dead after their “silhouettes” were spotted on Nanga Parbat mountain, where they were trekking, according to Italy’s ambassador to Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia: An American woman who was stuck illegally in Saudi Arabia with her young daughter after her Saudi husband divorced her was granted residency, she said, after The Times wrote about her situation.
South Africa: A generation after apartheid, nearly 70 percent of farms held by individuals have white owners, fueling disappointment in the governing African National Congress and spurring some in the black majority to seize land themselves.
North Korea: President Trump acknowledged that Kim Jong-un had indeed continued to build out his nuclear program, even during their budding friendship and long before their second summit meeting in Vietnam.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day:  Chickpea stew with orzo and mustard greens is colorful and complex. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)
Your frustration at work could be fuel for a breakthrough.
Heavy bedding is everywhere now. Does it really help with insomnia?
The Times published an obituary of Carmine Persico, a noted New York mobster, on Friday. In some circles, the bigger news was the byline.
“Say it with me children: Selwyn Raab,” the Times writer Dan Barry tweeted.
Mr. Raab, 84, retired from The Times in 2000, after decades of reporting on the Mafia. His signature 2005 book, “Five Families,” runs roughly 800 spellbinding pages.
Your Back Story writer gave Mr. Raab a call. In addition to projects for the History Channel, he’s writing a pilot for a 10-part series based on “Five Families” and working with Netflix on a series about the 1986 Mafia Commission trial.
Sadly, we didn’t have a photo of him on hand.
“I was always very careful about showing my face,” he said, his humor as unchanged as his energy. “The point is, very simply, that there was always a gentlemen’s agreement that if you wrote honestly about organized crime figures, they wouldn’t victimize you, but there are always crackpots.
“And I wasn’t that good-looking to begin with.”
Andrea Kannapell, the Briefings editor, who overlapped with Mr. Raab at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:
 Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher
This week on “The Argument,” how much blame does President Trump deserve for white supremacist attacks like the New Zealand mosque shooting? Michelle Goldberg argues that the president bridges racist ideology and the internet’s nihilistic troll culture. Ross Douthat thinks European anxieties toward immigrants and Islam have gone global. David Leonhardt points to data that shows rising hate crimes and racist speech parallel to Trump’s rise. And returning guest Jamelle Bouie likens Trump to Andrew Johnson, a president whose indifference toward racist violence helped embolden it.
Then, the four columnists debate what a fairer system of higher education might look like. In the wake of the Operation Varsity Blues college admissions scandal, how should meritocracy, elitism and college sports be handled?
And finally, Michelle recommends a recent podcast that spotlights yet another chapter in this American age of grift.
Background Reading:
I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife.
I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.
I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.
My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.
Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter. 
This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
_____
1. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked President Trump to reschedule the State of the Union address or deliver it in writing, citing security concerns from the government shutdown.
The president’s State of the Union address is one of the highest-stakes events for federal law enforcement each year, with the leadership of all three branches of government gathering in one place. The Secret Service, which leads security, has been affected by the shutdown.
The speech is scheduled for Jan. 29, and the invitation to deliver the address is traditionally at the speaker’s discretion. Above, Ms. Pelosi on Capitol Hill today.
Democrats stood firm at a White House meeting aimed at resolving the shutdown impasse, telling Mr. Trump that he must abandon his demand for funding for a border wall in exchange for reopening the government.
_____
2. Prime Minister Theresa May narrowly survived a vote of no confidence in Parliament a day after it rejected her Brexit plan.
The vote was 325 to 306. Many lawmakers from her own party who had opposed her plan nonetheless voted to support her government, underscoring the complex politics around Britain’s split from the E.U.
Mrs. May’s failure to corral her own party has upended Britain’s political system, where prime ministers typically exercise iron-fisted control over Parliament.
There is growing speculation Mrs. May could ask to postpone Britain’s divorce from the bloc. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, faces mounting calls for a second Brexit referendum.
_____
3. An Islamic State attack in Syria killed four Americans. 
Two troops, a contractor and a civilian were among 15 people killed in the suicide bombing. Three American troops also were injured.
The attack targeted a restaurant in the northern city of Manbij where American soldiers would sometimes stop to eat during patrols, residents said. Above, U.S. troops gathered at the scene of the attack.
The bombing came just weeks after President Trump ordered a U.S. withdrawal from Syria and declared the Islamic State defeated. Before the attack, two American troops had been killed in the country since the U.S. sent forces there in 2015.
_____
4. The death toll rose to 21 in the terrorist attack at a luxury hotel and office complex in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital. The victims included an American and a British national.
Gunfire could still be heard early Wednesday, a day after Shabab militants first stormed the complex, above. The attack began Tuesday when four men reportedly jumped out of a white car, opened fire at a security checkpoint and blasted their way in.
Kenya’s president said in a speech to the nation that all the attackers had been “eliminated” and that the security operation was complete. The siege underscored the persistence of the Shabab, an offshoot of Al Qaeda based in Somalia.
_____
5. Senate Democrats fell short in an effort to rebuke the Trump administration on its Russia sanctions policy — but picked up significant Republican support along the way.
Eleven Republicans joined Democrats voting to enforce sanctions against the corporate empire of an influential ally of President Vladimir Putin of Russia, but the effort needed three more votes to clear the 60-vote threshold required to advance.
The sanctions will most likely be lifted this week as part of a deal negotiated by the Treasury Department. Democrats had argued the agreement let Moscow off easy at a moment when serious questions remained about the relationship between Mr. Trump and Russia.
We also looked back at the five meetings the president had with Mr. Putin since taking office. Each has fueled suspicions about their relationship because of the secretive way they were conducted. Above, Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin in Helsinki.
_____
6. For years, the company that makes OxyContin has tried to depict its owners, the Sackler family, as removed from day-to-day operations.
But a new court filing contends that family members actually directed years of efforts to mislead doctors and patients about the dangers of the powerful opioid painkiller.
When evidence of growing OxyContin abuse became clear in the early 2000s, one of them advised pushing blame onto people who had become addicted.
“We have to hammer on abusers in every way possible,” Richard Sackler wrote in an email in 2001, when he was president of the company, Purdue Pharma. “They are the culprits and the problem. They are reckless criminals.”
_____
7. No New York culinary experience is shared more widely than the slice of pizza.
The origins of New York-style pizza date to the early 20th century, when large waves of Italian immigrants settled in the city. We went back into our archives to see how the slice made pizza the perfect New York City food.
In another ode to New York, our chief fashion critic bids farewell to the city’s shuttered department stores. “Losing them, we lose a piece of our own past too,” Vanessa Friedman writes.
_____
8. And here’s some food for thought on the history of America’s relationship with immigration.
A giant outpouring of anti-immigrant sentiment — in reaction to the mass arrival of Europeans at the start of the 20th century — drove Prohibition, Lisa McGirr, a professor of history at Harvard, argues in our Op-Ed pages. Above, a barrel of confiscated illegal beer is poured down a drain in 1921.
And perceived failures in enforcing the law helped empower the so-called second Ku Klux Klan, which, she says, “drew in a bumper crop of new recruits with their anti-Catholic, anti-immigrant, white supremacist message.”
But the heightened nativism, she concludes, also made American immigrants, their children and their allies reach out “for a fuller place in national political life to forge a more pluralist, tolerant, equitable country.”
_____
9. What do the Oscars gain by losing a host?
Kevin Hart was going to M.C. the show, but he stepped down after old tweets surfaced that used homophobic slurs, and now the Oscars are likely forgo a host entirely.
Our Carpetbagger columnist weighs the pros and cons — including the promise of a shorter program — of what he calls “the most overrated and underrated part of any Oscar telecast.”
Separately, “Project Blue Book” is a popular new series on History about an Air Force program to investigate and debunk U.F.O.s. Two reporters who have long worked on the serious side of U.F.O.s. watched the first six episodes for us.
_____
10. Finally, when the college gymnast Katelyn Ohashi’s floor routine went viral this week, it wasn’t just because of her flawless technique.
It was also her unabashed joy — helped by music from Michael Jackson — that drew in millions of viewers.
Injuries and unhappiness with gymnastics once derailed Ms. Ohashi’s career. But going to U.C.L.A. made all the difference, she said: “My teammates and my coaches have all allowed me to step into my individuality, and not be defined by just being a gymnast.”
We hope you stick your landing tonight.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
UTRECHT, Netherlands — Gunshots shattered the tram ride in a heavily Muslim neighborhood of this old Dutch city. The prime minister called it possible terrorism. SWAT teams rushed in, residents were ordered indoors, and all mosques closed as the police sought a killer in a country that had been spared large-scale terrorist attacks.
Suddenly the mayhem on Monday in the Netherlands seemed as if it might be another planned public slaughter in a seemingly tranquil part of the world, like the mosque massacre that had  traumatized the people of Christchurch, New Zealand.
The suspect, it turned out, was a Turkish immigrant described by acquaintances as a sometimes-religious man with a criminal record who may have been entangled in a dispute with his ex-wife.
It was about 10:30 a.m. when a gunman opened fire on the tram in Utrecht’s Kanaleneiland neighborhood, heavily populated by Turkish and Moroccan immigrants. Someone slammed on the emergency brakes, and other passengers screamed, clamoring to escape, according to witness accounts. At least three people were killed and five injured, some by shattering glass, and the assailant stepped off the tram and fled.
“I saw a woman lying outside the tram,” said Daan Molenaar, a witness. “She was being helped by passers-by leaving their cars. Then the suspect came out of the tram with a gun in his hand, and I thought I’ve got to get out of here.”
The suspect was later identified by the police as Gokmen Tanis, 37, an immigrant from the central Turkish town of Yozgat. Mr. Tanis had been arrested before and is facing a rape charge, according to the Dutch national broadcaster and people who know him.
The police conducted house-to-house raids in the area and arrested Mr. Tanis eight hours later, just as officials were holding a news conference on the attack.
“He’s very religious,” but also “a real guy of the streets, aggressive as well,” Alptekin Akdogan, who said he knew Mr. Tanis, told The New York Times. He said he and Mr. Tanis had grown up in the Kanaleneiland neighborhood.
Zabit Elmaci, 39, said he used to work with Mr. Tanis, washing dishes in a restaurant called Abrikoos. He described Mr. Tanis as “always in trouble.”
“I don’t remember him as a religious person, but about two years ago he started acting weird, so I gradually stopped seeing him,” Mr. Elmaci said.
Mr. Tanis was born in Yozgat, according to both Mr. Akdogan and Zeki Baran, director of the Netherlands Yozgat Federation.
“We don’t know much about him, except for that his father told us that he had not been in touch with his family for a long time,” Mr. Baran said. A relative of the suspect is a candidate for mayor of Yozgat, he added.
While the authorities had not ruled out terrorism by Monday night, the panic that convulsed Utrecht, a city of 330,000 with a diverse population, appeared to partly reflect heightened nerves from the Christchurch killings three days earlier, which left 50 people dead.
Utrecht quickly became a trending topic on Twitter as people sought to learn more. News websites, including that of The New York Times, provided live updates of what was known.
The interest was amplified by the neighborhood of the attack, partly populated by people of Turkish descent. That raised speculation that the shooting may have been somehow tied to the angry denunciations by Turkey’s president of the suspect in the Christchurch slaughter, a self-proclaimed white nationalist who had visited Turkey and expressed hatred of immigrants.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said Monday night that Turkish intelligence agencies were investigating the Utrecht shooting further. “Some say that it is a family dispute, others say it is a terrorist act,” Mr. Erdogan told Turkish television.
Whether others were involved in the shooting remained unclear, although the police said they had made two additional arrests by Monday evening. Some witnesses said they had seen more than one assailant on the tram.
Mark Rutte, the prime minister of the Netherlands, raised the possibility of terrorism soon after the tram attack. The mayor of Utrecht, Jan van Zanen, was more definitive, declaring: “We are working on the assumption of a terrorist motive.”
The Netherlands’ main counterterrorism agency raised its assessment of the threat in Utrecht Province, just southeast of Amsterdam, to the highest level and said it had activated a crisis team.
The authorities ordered the evacuation of all mosques in Utrecht, and security was increased at mosques elsewhere in the Netherlands.
But later in the day, the police said they were also considering that the motive might have been personal. Their warning for people to stay indoors was lifted.
According to the Turkish state-run news agency Anadolu, relatives of Mr. Tanis said that the shooting had originated from a family dispute, and that only one person had been the intended target. Similar accounts came from people who knew him in the Netherlands.
The identities of the victims remained unconfirmed Monday night, although there was some speculation one might have been his former wife. Some Turkish news accounts quoted the father of the suspect, Mehmet Tanis, as saying his son had divorced his wife, who lived in the Netherlands, more than a decade ago.
The Netherlands has one of the lowest rates of private firearms ownership in Europe, according to international studies, about 2.6 per 100 people, compared to more than one per person in the United States. Its rate of gun homicide, about 0.2 to 0.3 per 100,000 people each year, is fairly typical for Europe, and far below the United States rate of about 4 per 100,000 people.
Utrecht, about 25 miles from Amsterdam, has been a center of Dutch culture and commerce for a millennium. Utrecht University is the largest university in the Netherlands, and the city has multiple museums, a medieval old town, canals and the headquarters of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands.
More than 30 percent of the city’s population is foreign-born, according to the Dutch census.
I always admired my uncle Anas, my mom’s youngest brother and a general in the Egyptian police. He helped shape my sense of justice and discipline. When I was growing up, I had nothing but respect and admiration for him and his work fighting bad guys. Throughout his career — and unlike many of his colleagues — he never believed he was above the law. In a country where corruption is practically a way of life, he refused to wave his badge to get out of paying the train fare or to avoid everyday inconveniences. He genuinely believed that the police were there to maintain order and serve the people.
Then a coup came between us.
After Egypt’s generals overthrew President Mohamed Morsi in July 2013, I started attending and live-tweeting the huge sit-in in Cairo protesting the restoration of military rule, just 30 months after Egyptians had risen up against it. On Aug. 14 of that year, police and soldiers — including my uncle’s unit — surrounded and attacked the sprawling protest camp. At least 800 people were killed (some estimates put the number at more than 1,000) and some 4,000 more were injured. I was one of them.
As the police cleared the sit-in that morning, I was shot in the arm. A few days later, the police broke into my parents’ home looking for my father, who served in Mr. Morsi’s government. Instead, I was arrested. A few weeks later, my father was arrested, too.
I counted on Uncle Anas to come to my rescue. While rotting in solitary confinement, I had many daydreams about him knocking down the prison walls to save me, my father and our fellow prisoners from torture and abuse. But he never came.
Why did he abandon us? In the months before the coup, Egypt became pitted against itself. Those who supported ousting Mr. Morsi, including their backers in the state media, had dehumanized a large subset of Egyptian society: the Muslim Brotherhood and anyone believed to be sympathetic to them. I felt the tension rising at every family or social gathering, where small disagreements took on a new viciousness. Anti-revolution rhetoric cloaked itself in anti-Islamism, and conspiracy theories were everywhere. The Muslim Brotherhood was painted as the diabolical enemy of their fellow countrymen.
I am not a member of the Muslim Brotherhood. My father, a respected authority on Islamic jurisprudence, lived most of his life outside of Egypt but was affiliated with a progressive, moderate vision of Islamism. Most important, we both opposed the coup.
I can only guess that my uncle thought the stability of Egypt required him to stand by the crackdown or that he was afraid of associating with his now-dissident relatives. He never came, not even to visit, even though a visit from him could have eased the conditions of my imprisonment.
With every insult, every incident of torture, my resentment grew. How could my own uncle sleep in the comfort of his home knowing his nephew and brother-in-law were facing so much injustice? He was supposed to be better than the rest.
To maintain sanity, I suppressed my memories of the massacre and displaced the pain of my imprisonment into anger toward my uncle. I lashed out at my mother during her brief prison visits, when she would make excuses for him and apologetically suggest that he might come by once things “cooled down a bit.” I blamed him and every other officer who worked for the regime; hate was the simplest solution.
A 489-day hunger strike, an international campaign and pressure from Washington helped me regain my freedom on May 30, 2015. I felt more solidarity from strangers than I did from some of my own blood relatives.
A few months after my release, my uncle was severely injured in a suspected terrorist attack in Sinai, where he was stationed. My mother implored me to offer sympathy. I refused to call. I almost felt a sense of justice.
Two years later, Uncle Anas was still unable to walk. It had been nearly a year since he had surgery for a spinal fracture he sustained as a result of the attack and his muscles had not recovered. Medical exams revealed a fatal diagnosis: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., a degenerative illness.
I still could not bring myself to call my uncle, but as I watched my mother grieve, I began to rethink. I came to realize that in my self-righteous pursuit of justice, I had committed injustice against myself and my loved ones. My resentment blinded me to what was truly important: my empathy and humanity. I had dehumanized one of my most beloved, just as he had dehumanized me. I was angry at him for abandoning me while I was in prison, yet when he became a prisoner of his own body, I was ready to abandon him.
Last summer, I made peace with my uncle. It was the most difficult experience I have had since I left prison. I called him on the first day of Eid, and I could hear the slightly panicked excitement in his voice as we exchanged greetings. He spoke faster than usual, as if trying to make up for lost time. The weight of the resentment I carried vanished as soon as the conversation turned to kids, marriage, health and the famous feast that my aunt makes every Eid. As I ended our five years of silence, I felt the same sensation of freedom I had experienced when I was released. Soon after, my mom told me that the call had done wonders for his morale and that he had accompanied her on a visit to my father, who remains in prison.
My father served in the Morsi government; I was imprisoned for my activism; my uncle was a police officer under successive regimes; many other family members were army generals or politicians under the government of the former president, Hosni Mubarak. Is my family unique? In many ways, not at all. Most Egyptian families are similarly split across the country’s political divides.
With rampant state violence and the absence of any semblance of justice, Egyptian society is beyond polarized — it is broken. The targeting and dehumanization has extended beyond Islamists. Now anyone who dares to challenge the status quo is demonized. Families remain strained, political differences seem existential, dinner tables still have empty seats. Many weddings, birthdays and funerals are missed because of imprisonment, exile or exclusion. The hate, anger and vengeance have somehow overrun human decency.
I don’t know how Egypt will heal. But I do know that it will begin with each of us finding the strength to let love and hope transcend hate and grievance. Even though I may never get to see my favorite uncle again — I am prohibited from re-entering Egypt and he won’t be able to make it to the United States — a single phone call proved a powerful antidote to the venom we had been fed. My uncle and I took back the humanity that was stripped away from us with a simple act of love.
PARIS — What to do about Islam in France? Considering Islamist terrorist attacks, communalism and the international manipulation of Muslim communities, the matter is pressing. But it’s contentious, because managing Islam seems to go against laïcité, France’s staunch version of state secularism, and a 1905 law that mandates the separation of church and state.
Wouldn’t revising that law be an admission that secularism is bowing to Islamism? On the other hand, if the law isn’t revised, or if the French state cannot find other ways of monitoring and steering Islam, then Islam in France risks falling under the control of foreign states or the influence of radicals. That is already the case, actually: Since laïcité prohibits the French authorities from using public funds to build mosques or train imams, Algeria, Morocco, Turkey and Saudi Arabia have stepped in. According to the newsmagazine L’Express, 70 percent of imams practicing in France are not French.
In an attempt to overcome these paradoxes, President Emmanuel Macron recently convened at the Élysée Palace the country’s various Muslim leaders and then representatives from all religions. The order of the day for the broader meeting, held on Jan. 10, was old emergencies: how to punish radicalism, control the financing of mosques and make Muslim authorities accountable. The news daily Le Monde, which obtained the note that the president handed to attendees, reported that the government was proposing to revise the 1905 law while “confirming” “its principles.”
It was an attempt to square a circle, a malaise, so very French. And the narrower question of what to do about imams — their origins, their trainings, their salaries — summarizes it well.
Here is a first hurdle: It’s virtually impossible to tally imams in France. No one really knows how many there are, partly because the collection of data based on ethnic or religious grounds is prohibited. The last available estimates from the interior ministry — which date back to 2012 — put the number of mosques in France at around 2,500. (A 2016 report by the Senate said it was closer to 3,000.) But those figures are as outdated today as they were imprecise in the first place: What even counts as a “mosque” when so many Muslim believers gather in the basements of low-income building complexes or other improvised prayer halls? And there being 2,500 mosques doesn’t mean there are 2,500 imams: In Sunni Islam, the version of Islam most prevalent in France, anyone can declare oneself an imam and volunteer to lead prayers or the Friday Sermon.
There is no central authority overseeing Islam in France. Anyway, how do you supervise the mosques you don’t fund or imams you can’t pay?
For the time being, France, for lack of its own theological schools, has favored filtered immigration: It brings in imams from abroad, mostly from the home countries of its main immigrant communities, either for long stretches or just for Ramadan. Paradoxically, one of the justifications for this policy — though rarely admittedly publicly — is security: It seems less risky to rely on an official imam from Algeria than to let a self-proclaimed imam emerge in a Paris banlieue, or suburb. 
For example, Algerian imams wishing to go to France must first undergo  investigations. And as the Algerian government puts it, modestly, the “Algerian expertise” in internal security matters ensures quality vetting. The government has also offered its services to the United States, Belgium and Italy.
In 2018, Algeria sent approximately 100 imams to officiate in France. Morocco and Tunisia contributed about as many each. In 2017, L’Express ran the headline “Morocco, the factory of French imams,” with an article on imam-apprentices, some sent from France, whom the kingdom was training in how to dispense “middle-ground” Islam before dispatching them abroad. According to the news weekly Le Point, Turkish “consular structures” oversee more than 250 mosques and about 200 official imams seconded by Turkey to France.
The filtered import of foreign imams may look like a good practical solution; in fact, it’s an ideological trap. These imams, even if acting in good faith, can only reinforce communalism in France and work against integration, because they are not French. In the name of laïcité, France is dangerously delegating its  Islam to other states.
Those states benefit. For the Algerian government, the export of imams seems to confirm the country’s return to stability. Saudi Arabia sees proselytizing as a form of soft power. So does Turkey, which appears invested in maintaining a religious lobby abroad.
The stakes are high, apparently. When last year the Austrian government expelled about 60 Turkish preachers to counter, it said, the creation of “parallel societies” and “political Islam,” Turkey called the move “racist” and “Islamophobic.” When the French government said it wanted to create a distinct “Islam of France,” Algeria — speaking indirectly, via an expert’s op-ed in state media — accused it of “arrogance tinted with ignorance.”
The import of imams, the foreign financing of mosques — these delegations of power by the French authorities are a dead end: They won’t do enough to stem radicalism in France, and they will do even less to nurture the emergence of, precisely, an Islam of France.
The president’s office seems to want to overcome all this. But some of the participants in that first meeting convened by Mr. Macron at the beginning of the year reacted with calculated anger before accepting the invitation. Members of the French Council of the Muslim Faith decried the  “colonial administration of Islam.” It’s a clever conflation: By invoking colonialism, they can leverage guilt as a bargaining chip while maintaining Islam’s communal valence. Why do that? For fear of losing power if France develops a sui generis form of Islam. Harping on Muslims’ status as a once-colonized group is a way of highlighting their ties to their countries of origin, over those to their host country.
Past attempts to create Muslim councils — the Great Mosque of Paris, the Federation of French Muslims, the Union of Islamic Organizations in France (also known as Muslims of France) — that could effectively represent France’s various Muslim communities have failed. One reason is the rivalry among the groups’ leaders, different confessional strands and foreign governments with ties to immigrant communities. Algeria competes with Morocco, and both of them compete with Turkey and Saudi Arabia: As the journalist Henri Tincq has pointed out on Slate.fr, the Paris Mosque is “loyal to Algeria,” the Federation of French Muslims has “ties to the Muslim World League and Morocco” and the Union of Islamic Organizations in France is “close to the Muslim Brotherhood.”
It’s difficult to separate Islam from its community and the community from its country of origin without being accused of interference. Whenever the French government tries to manage Islam in France, Algeria says it’s meddling, when in saying so, it is Algeria that is meddling in France’s affairs.
So what can be done? One solution has been put forward by Hakim El Karoui, an international consultant close to Mr. Macron and the author of the recent report “The Islamist Factory” and, in 2016, of “A French Islam Is Possible.”
First, he recommends strictly supervising external financing or informal funds collected in mosques, neighborhoods or local associations. He also suggests creating an independent fund for training imams by taxing halal businesses, money collected through the Muslim alms known as zakat and commerce around the pilgrimage to Mecca. Those are good ideas for trying to keep state and church, or cult, separate while integrating French Muslims into France.
But just what should be uniting is proving divisive: Mr. El Karoui’s proposals are controversial, notably for the French Council of the Muslim Faith. One of the organization’s vice-presidents called them an “insult” to Islam and accused Mr. El Karoui of conflating Islam and Islamism. That reaction sums up well the endless-seeming debate between those who want to maintain a monopoly over Islam in France and those who wish to develop an Islam of France.
PARIS — France called on Tuesday for avoiding any escalation of tensions in the Middle East region after U.S. President Donald Trump said he would name Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a terrorist organization.
Asked about the U.S. move, the French foreign ministry replied in an electronic press briefing that France remained committed to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.
"We urge people to avoid escalating tensions or destabilizing the region," the ministry added. 
 (Reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta; editing by Richard Lough)
BRUSSELS — The European Union urged the Libyan National Army (LNA) forces of General Khalifa Haftar on Thursday to stop their offensive on the Libyan capital Tripoli, in a statement issued by the bloc's top diplomat.
The statement had been held up for a day as France and Italy sparred over how to handle the fighting, which has pitted the LNA against forces of the U.N.-recognised government of Prime Minister Fayez al-Serraj in Tripoli.
"The military attack launched by the LNA on Tripoli and the subsequent escalation in and around the capital are endangering civilians, including migrants and refugees, and disrupting the U.N.-led political process, with the risk of serious consequences for Libya and the wider region, including the terrorist threat," top EU diplomat Federica Mogherini said.
The statement no longer mentioned Haftar directly by name and shifted away from blaming his offensive exclusively for the escalation, compared to a draft version seen by Reuters on Wednesday before it was blocked by France.
While Rome supports Serraj, Paris has relations with Haftar - an example of how the EU's internal divisions sometimes undercut its sway on the global scene. 
"The European Union and its Member States call on all parties to immediately cease all military operations. The LNA and all the forces that have moved into Tripoli or its vicinity must withdraw and the humanitarian truces called by the U.N. must be heeded," the statement said.
At the request of France, the statement was amended from its draft version to include mentions of the plight of refugees and migrants in Libya, and the presence among the anti-Haftar forces of Islamist militants designated as terrorists by the United Nations.
 (Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska; Editing by Kevin Liffey and Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON — A court in Luxembourg has ruled against a group of Sept. 11 victims in a novel lawsuit seeking $1.6 billion in Iranian assets, bringing to a head a long growing disagreement about a significant question of international law: Should governments be immune from lawsuits even when they are accused of responsibility for terrorist attacks?
For decades after World War II, as the modern international order was established, the United States stood in alignment with the world by restrictively interpreting “sovereign immunity,” the principle that people generally cannot sue governments. But starting with a 1996 law and expanding in the post-9/11 era, Congress has made it easier for victims of terrorist attacks to file such lawsuits.
Taking advantage of that exception, survivors and relatives of people killed by attacks linked to Iranian operatives — such as the 1983 truck bombing of a Marine base in Beirut, Lebanon — have used American courts to file lawsuits against Iran. Iran has failed to show up in court to contest them, and judges have entered more than $50 billion in default judgments.
Those judgments are largely symbolic so long as there is no way for victims to enforce them and obtain the money that judges say Iran owes them. But after the deal with six world powers in 2015 in which Iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in return for relief from sanctions, billions in Iranian assets started to become available in Europe, which generally enforces judgments from American courts.
In a first-of-its-kind effort two years ago, a group of attack victims tried to use a European court to seize Iranian funds to pay them part of a roughly $6.5 billion default judgment that a federal judge in New York awarded them in 2012. They had argued that Iran assisted Al Qaeda, such as by facilitating travel by its operatives through Iranian territory.
They persuaded a court in Luxembourg to put a freeze on $1.6 billion in assets belonging to the Iranian central bank while it weighed their request.
But this week, a court in Luxembourg threw out the case. In a 160-page ruling, a panel of judges declared that there is no terrorism exception to sovereign immunity in the eyes of Luxembourg law, so the court could not enforce the American ruling.
The attack victims were disappointed by the ruling and intended to appeal, according to their lawyer, Lee S. Wolosky, a partner in the law firm Boies Schiller Flexner and a former Obama administration State Department official.
“We believe the Luxembourg court got it wrong,” Mr. Wolosky said. “This is a valid U.S. judgment entitled to recognition in Luxembourg, just as Luxembourg’s judgments are afforded reciprocity in U.S. courts.”
On Thursday, Mr. Wolosky wrote to Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy, asking him to reject a request by Iran for assistance in turning back the victim families’ request that Iranian assets in Italy be frozen. The letter cited a 2014 Italian constitutional court ruling that the doctrine of sovereign immunity does not protect violators of human rights from lawsuits.
The case is raising an important test of the legislative spree that Congress went on after the Sept. 11 attacks to carve out a terrorism exception to sovereign immunity, said Harold Hongju Koh, a Yale Law School professor of international law who served as the State Department’s top lawyer in the Obama administration. Other countries did not follow suit, either in law and practice.
“Everyone knew a case would come along that exposes the divergence between a more limited set of restrictions on sovereign immunity held globally and the United States’ emerging position on non-immunity for various kinds of terrorist acts,” he said. “This case has exposed that seam.”
The case in Luxembourg has been closely watched not only by other victims of terrorist attacks holding similar default judgments, but by diplomats and security officials as well. Critics have raised concerns that if it succeeds, it would undermine the nuclear deal by making it harder for Iran to reintegrate into the world economy, strengthening the hand of hard-liners in Tehran who want to abandon the accord.
The ruling, if it holds, could help persuade Iran to adhere to the nuclear deal despite the Trump administration’s reimposition of sanctions, said Payam Mohseni, the director of the Iran Project at Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
“Through the Luxembourg court ruling, the Iranians will be gauging how viable continued engagement with the West will be in the future, particularly with the Europeans,” he said. “If Iranian assets are threatened in Europe, the value of staying in the nuclear agreement is significantly diminished for Iran.”
But the Luxembourg ruling is also a setback to efforts to make it easier for victims of terrorist attacks to win compensation that have been more successful inside the United States.
In 2016, the United States Supreme Court approved a request by another group of terrorist attack victims to seize nearly $2 billion in Iranian assets frozen on American soil after the 1979 revolution. (Iran called that “an outrageous robbery” and sued the United States in The Hague.)
And later in 2016, Congress enacted the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, which further narrowed sovereign immunity, permitting civil lawsuits by victims of the Sept. 11 attacks against Saudi Arabia to proceed.
While Iran and its proxy Shiite militant group, Hezbollah, have been blamed by American officials for many other terrorist attacks — like the 1983 attack in Lebanon or the 1996 truck bombing of Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia — few terrorism specialists blame it for the Sept. 11 attacks, which were carried out by Al Qaeda, a Sunni group.
But in 2012, the plaintiffs who later brought the case in Luxembourg won a default ruling in federal court in Manhattan holding Iran responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks.
Still, it is the legitimacy of the American view of sovereign immunity — not the factual credibility of holding Iran responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks — that is at issue in Luxembourg. Mr. Wolosky argued that the United States’ view should not been seen as an outlier, saying that “international law has progressively expanded exceptions to state immunity, including in cases of terrorism.”
Five residents of a squalid New Mexico compound where a child was found dead last year pleaded not guilty on Thursday to terror charges that they were plotting to kill United States government officials, military personnel and F.B.I. employees.
While federal authorities say the five family members were planning deadly attacks, their lawyers contend they were charged because they are Muslim.
The new charges are included in an indictment handed up last week. The two men and three women — who have been incarcerated on weapons charges since August, after the authorities raided the compound — stand accused of running a terror training camp and using malnourished children, who lived on site, as pawns in their plot.
Their remote desert outpost near the Colorado border was used to store firearms and served as a base from which to prepare to “engage in jihad, to die as martyrs, and to engage in violent acts,” according to the recent indictment.
“The defendants in this case allegedly were preparing for deadly attacks and their targets included law enforcement and military personnel, the very people who are committed to protecting all of us,” Michael McGarrity, the assistant director of the F.B.I.’s Counterterrorism Division, said in a statement.
But lawyers for the five said there was no terror plot and they were simply choosing to live off the grid, as many people do in New Mexico.
“We believe they would not have been charged with terrorism if they were not Muslim,” said Ryan Villa, a lawyer for Subhanah Wahhaj, one of the three women. “They were simply practicing their faith and exercising their right to freedom of religion and to keep and bear arms.”
Law enforcement officers raided the compound, which investigators described as a trailer buried in the ground and covered in plastic, after receiving a tip last summer that people there were starving and a kidnapped boy might be living there, the authorities have said.
The missing toddler’s mother told the authorities that her estranged husband had abducted the boy after saying he was taking him to a park to perform an alternative healing ritual. The child had a condition that provoked seizures and prevented him from walking.
Law enforcement officials said they found 11 hungry children and a firing range at the compound, and the decomposing body of a 3-year-old boy, amid filth and stacked tires. The boy was in fact the missing child, Abdul Ghani-Wahhaj, the son of Siraj Ibn Wahhaj, one of the men now facing terror charges.
The severely ill child was denied medication before he died, according to the authorities, because the boy’s father believed it violated their beliefs. The results of an autopsy are pending, according to The Associated Press.
Four defendants — Jany Leveille, Hujrah Wahhaj, Subhanah Wahhaj and Lucas Morton — are facing kidnapping charges. As his father, Siraj Ibn Wahhaj cannot be charged with kidnapping.
Mr. Villa, the defense lawyer, said that the authorities had painted an exaggerated picture of just how dire the situation was at the compound.
“None of the children, except the child who passed, were in a bad state,” he said. “When the police raided their home, not a single shot was fired and everyone surrendered peacefully.”
A representative from the Justice Department said Thursday that prosecutors had not yet decided whether to seek the death penalty.
NEW DELHI — For the first time in five decades, Indian warplanes crossed into Pakistan and conducted airstrikes on Tuesday. But in the jarring escalation of hostilities, the leadership of each nuclear-armed country also appeared to leave itself a way out of pushing the conflict into war.
In India, where election-year nationalism is fueling waves of anger over the militant attack in Kashmir that killed dozens of soldiers this month, the story line was of righteous vengeance accomplished.
“We won’t let this country bow down!” Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a charged rally in New Delhi, speaking in front of a backdrop with the photos of the Indian soldiers killed by a suicide bomber.
In a statement, India’s foreign ministry claimed that airstrikes near Balakot in northern Pakistan had struck “the biggest training camp” of Jaish-e-Mohammad, the group that claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing, killing a “very large number” of militants as they were planning another attack.
But in Pakistan, where the domestic tone has been one of fatigue over enduring economic crisis and political ennui, the country’s military command insisted that India’s air incursion had achieved nothing.
Prime Minister Imran Khan promised a response to the strikes, which he dismissed as a political ploy by Mr. Modi, carried out for “domestic consumption” before national elections. He shrugged off Indian claims that the airstrikes had resulted in “heavy casualties” or struck a militant training camp, according to a statement issued by his office.
In a sign of escalating tensions, Mr. Khan summoned the National Command Authority — the body that oversees the deployment and management of Pakistan’s nuclear arms — for a special session on Wednesday. The prime minister also called for Parliament to meet on Wednesday to discuss a response.
[Earlier: ‘Indian Jets Strike in Pakistan in Revenge for Kashmir Attack’]
With India claiming to have avenged the Kashmir attack, and with Pakistan claiming that India had done no real damage, it seemed possible that the situation could yet be defused. Still, analysts cautioned that the crisis could erupt into something more serious if restraint failed on either side.
Ikram Sehgal, a defense analyst with ties to Pakistan’s national military establishment, said the country’s response to the strikes would be “measured.” But he added, “The only question is will India’s leadership be able to stomach it and whether we will go into a dangerous territory of further escalation.”
Residents around Balakot, the scene of the attack in Pakistan, said they saw no sign of any significant damage from the airstrikes.
Pakistan’s chief military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, portrayed the incursion as a high-speed dip in and out by Indian jets as they were confronted by Pakistani fighter planes. He later posted on Twitter four images of a forested area pockmarked with small craters and debris, which he said was the site of Indian airstrikes.
The view that little had been damaged was supported by military analysts and two Western security officials, who said that any militant training areas at the site, in the Pakistani province of Khyber-Pakhtunkwha, had long since dispersed. (Earlier reports had placed the attack in the Pakistani side of Kashmir, which is nearby.)
The suicide bombing by Jaish-e-Mohammed, on Feb. 14 near Pulwama in Kashmir, was the deadliest in the region in decades, at a time when a heavy Indian security presence has been trying to stamp out any signs of insurgency in the disputed territory.
India swiftly blamed Pakistan, which has a history of fostering militant proxies, for directing the attack. But Pakistani officials denied that Jaish-e-Mohammed had the freedom to operate within Pakistan. And Mr. Khan insisted that Pakistan would investigate the attack if India offered evidence.
Through decades of tensions, Pakistan and India have gone to war over Kashmir twice, and have pushed to the edge of it many times. The brinkmanship has evolved into a dangerous but almost formalized language of escalation and de-escalation over the years.
News of the strikes Tuesday spurred panic on both sides of the border, with Indian and Pakistani residents either fleeing their homes or stockpiling food, fearing a larger outbreak of war.
Though India and Pakistan routinely shell each other across the Line of Control, this is the first time since the countries’ war in 1971 that either side has confirmed sending warplanes into the other’s airspace.
A resident of Attar Shisha village inside Pakistan, about two miles from Balakot, said he was woken up by loud explosions at about 3:15 a.m. Tuesday. He was reached by phone, and asked to remain anonymous out of fear of reprisal by the Pakistani authorities.
The villager said that Jaish-e-Mohammed still ran a school in Balakot, but that the airstrikes missed that building and hit an empty ravine instead, adding that there were no casualties he had heard of.
Across the disputed border, hundreds of Indians fled their villages and towns scattered along the Line of Control on Tuesday, after fearing for days that tensions would only escalate.
“We first heard the sound of aircraft hovering above at around 2 a.m. We could not sleep,” said Imran Khatana, a farmer from Salamabad village in Indian-controlled Kashmir. “I pushed my family members into a bunker thinking something wrong is going to happen.”
Mr. Khatana said there had been a buildup of Indian troops over the last few days along the border. Residents of Kashmir rushed to markets to buy essential supplies, worried that tensions would worsen. A major hospital in Srinagar canceled staff holidays and asked employees to be on standby.
Balakot and its surrounding area hosted numerous militant training camps until 2005, when a powerful earthquake struck the area, devastating its towns and villages. As international aid groups poured in to provide relief, militants packed up their camps and went elsewhere, to avoid being detected, analysts say.
Some worried that the Indian incursion, effective or not, still carried a high risk of military reprisal from Pakistan.
“The Pakistanis are bound to react, conventionally and not through a proxy like a militant group,” said Rahul Bedi, an analyst at the London-based Jane’s Information Group, which tracks the defense industry. “Where they react and when is something that only Pakistanis know.”
The American government has typically been a broker between India and Pakistan, conducting shuttle diplomacy in similarly heated situations. But President Trump has taken a hard line on Pakistan while drawing closer to India since coming to office in 2017.
From China, which has traditionally supported Pakistan in moments of international pressure, the message was studiously neutral, calling for restraint from both sides and prioritizing the importance of fighting terrorism.
“A sound relationship and communication serve the interests of both countries and the stability of South Asia,” said Lu Kang, a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “Fighting against terrorism is a global challenge, and needs international cooperation.”
India controls much of Kashmir, while Pakistan controls a smaller part of the region, which was left in an undetermined state after the British partition of India in 1947. It has seen decades of violence from militants seeking independence.
In the run-up to Indian elections this spring, and with Mr. Modi facing a fierce re-election fight, voters have demanded that New Delhi respond to the Kashmir attack with force against Pakistan.
“What they hit is speculation for now — they say they hit a terrorist camp, but a lot of intelligence sources say those camps in Pakistan had been cleaned out in recent days,” Mr. Bedi said. “This is more political symbolism than anything else. Mr. Modi had to show some demonstrable action on India’s part, ahead of elections.”
BAQUBA, Iraq — Security forces killed an Islamic State commander and four fighters in the Hamrin Mountains area of northeast Iraq on Sunday, the military said.
Iraqi and U.S.-led coalition warplanes have been carrying out air strikes in the area, targeting militant hideouts, for three days.
The elite Counter Terrorism Service and the military's operations command for Diyala province did not name the commander but they said in a statement he was in charge of Islamic State forces in Hamrin.
He and four "followers" were killed in the area northeast of Baquba, the provincial capital, on Sunday, it said.
Iraq declared victory over the group, which once held large swathes of the country, in December 2017.
With its dream of a caliphate in the Middle East now dead, Islamic State has switched to hit-and-run attacks aimed at undermining the Baghdad government. 
The militants regrouped in the Hamrin mountain range in the northeast, which extends from Diyala province, on the border with Iran, northwest to the River Tigris in Kirkuk province.
 (Reporting by Adam Hadi; Writing by Ahmed Aboulenein; Editing by Angus MacSwan)
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher
They left to join the so-called caliphate and took an oath of allegiance to a terrorist group intent on destroying the West. Now they want to come home. What should the United States do with the American wives of Islamic State fighters?
On today’s episode:
Background reading:
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
President Trump wants $5.7 billion to build a wall at the southern border of the United States. Nancy Pelosi thinks a wall is “immoral.” The fight over these slats or barriers or bricks shut down the government for more than a month and may do so again if Mr. Trump isn’t satisfied with the way negotiations unfold over the next three weeks.
But let’s be clear: This is a disagreement about symbolism, not policy. Liberals object less to aggressive border security than to the wall’s xenophobic imagery, while the administration openly revels in its political incorrectness. And when this particular episode is over, we’ll still have been fighting about the wrong thing. It’s true that immigrants will keep trying to cross into the United States and that global migration will almost certainly increase in the coming years as climate change makes parts of the planet uninhabitable. But technology and globalization are complicating the idea of what a border is and where it stands.
Not long from now, it won’t make sense to think of the border as a line, a wall or even any kind of imposing vertical structure. Tearing down, or refusing to fund, border walls won’t get anyone very far in the broader pursuit of global justice. The borders of the future won’t be as easy to spot, build or demolish as the wall that Mr. Trump is proposing. That’s because they aren’t just going up around countries — they’re going up around us. And they’re taking away our freedom.
In “The Jungle,” a play about a refugee camp in Calais, France, a Kurdish smuggler named Ali explains that his profession is not responsible for the large numbers of migrants making the dangerous journeys to Europe by sea. “Once, I was the only way a man could ever dream of arriving on your shore,” the smuggler says. But today, migrants can plan out the journeys using their phones. “It is not about this border. It’s the border in here,” Ali says, pointing to his head — “and that is gone, now.”
President Trump is obsessed with his border wall because technology has freed us from the walls in our heads.
For people with means and passports, it’s easy to plot exotic itineraries in a flash and book flights with just a glance at a screen. Social feeds are an endless stream of old faces in new places: a carefree colleague feeding elephants in Thailand; a smug college classmate on a “babymoon” in Tahiti; that awful ex hanging off a cliff in Switzerland; a friend’s parents enjoying retirement in New Zealand.
Likewise, a young person in Sana, Yemen, or Guatemala City might see a sister in Toronto, a neighbor in Phoenix, an aunt in London or a teacher in Berlin, and think that he, too, could start anew. Foreign places are real. Another country is possible.
If you zoom out enough in Google Earth, you’ll see the lines between nations begin to disappear. Eventually, you’ll be left staring at a unified blue planet. You might even experience a hint of what astronauts have called the “overview effect”: the sense that we are all on “Spaceship Earth,” together. “From space I saw Earth — indescribably beautiful with the scars of national boundaries gone,” recalled Muhammed Faris, a Syrian astronaut, after his 1987 mission to space. In 2012, Mr. Faris fled war-torn Syria for Turkey.
One’s freedom of movement used to be largely determined by one’s citizenship, national origin and finances. That’s still the case — but increasingly, people are being categorized not just by the color of their passports or their ability to pay for tickets but also by where they’ve been and what they’ve said in the past.
This is what is happening on that front already:
A 2017 executive order barred people from seven countries, including five with Muslim majorities, from entering the country. An older rule put in place during the Obama administration compelled anyone who’d even just visited seven blacklisted nations to obtain additional clearance before traveling to the United States. Even as the Trump administration’s policy has met with legal challenges, it means that the barrier to entering the United States, for many, begins with their data and passport stamps, and is thousands of miles away from this country. 
The Trump administration would also like to make it harder for immigrants who’ve received public assistance to obtain citizenship or permanent residence by redefining what it means to be a “public charge.” If the administration succeeds, it will have moved the border into immigrants’ living rooms, schools  and hospital beds.
The walls of the future go beyond one administration’s policies, though. They are growing up all around us, being built by global technology companies that allow for constant surveillance, data harvesting and the alarming collection of biometric information. In 2017, the United States announced it would be storing the social media profiles of immigrants in their permanent file, ostensibly to prevent Twitter-happy terrorists from slipping in. For years, Customs and Border Protection agents have asked travelers about their social media, too.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation has said these practices can “chill and deter the free speech and association of immigrants to the United States, as well as the U.S. persons who communicate with them.” In other words, it’s no longer enough to have been born in the right place, at the right time, to the right parents. The trail of bread crumbs you leave could limit your movements.
It’s possible to get a glimpse of where a digital border might lead from China. Look at its continuing experiment with social-credit scoring, where a slip of the tongue or an unpaid debt could one day jeopardize someone’s ability to board a train or apply for a job. When your keystrokes and text messages become embedded in your legal identity, you create a wall around yourself without meaning to.
The Berkeley political theorist Wendy Brown diagnoses the tendency to throw up walls as a classic symptom of a nation-state’s looming impotence in the face of globalization — the flashy sports car of what she calls a “waning sovereignty.” In a recent interview for The Nation, Professor Brown told me that walls fulfill a desire for greater sovereign control in times when the concept of “bounded territory itself is in crisis.” They are signifiers of a “loss of a national ‘we’ and national control — all the things we’ve seen erupt in a huge way.” 
Walls are a response to deep existential anxiety, and even if the walls come down, or fail to be built in brick and stone, the world will guarantee us little in the way of freedom, fairness or equality. It makes more sense to think of modern borders as overlapping and concentric circles that change size, shape and texture depending on who — or what — is trying to pass through.
It’s far too easy to imagine a situation where our freedom of movement still depends entirely on what has happened to us in the past and what kind of information we’re willing to give up in return. Consider the expedited screening process of the Global Entry Program for traveling to the United States. It’s a shortcut — reserved for people who can get it — that doesn’t do away with borders. It just makes them easier to cross, and therefore less visible.
That serves the modern nation-state very well. Because in the end, what are borders supposed to protect us from? The answer used to be other states, empires or sovereigns. But today, relatively few land borders exist to physically fend off a neighboring power, and countries even cooperate to police the borders they share. Modern borders exist to control something else: the movement of people. They control us.
Those are the walls we should be fighting over.
LONDON — The police in Britain said on Tuesday that they were investigating a claim that packages containing explosives sent to London and Scotland last week came from a group calling itself the I.R.A., an abbreviation for the Irish Republican Army.
The Metropolitan Police of London said in a statement that counterterrorism officers and the Scottish police were investigating the claim, including its indication that a fifth package was sent but remains undiscovered.
Four packages were found last week at the University of Glasgow and three London transport hubs, including Heathrow Airport. Employees near the airport opened one device, causing part of the envelope to burn, but no one was hurt. The other packages were recovered by the police before being opened.
“Given the packages received last week bore similarities to devices sent in the past which were linked to dissident groups associated with Northern Ireland-related terrorism, officers were already looking at this as a line of inquiry,” the police said. “However, we continue to keep an open mind.”
The claim of responsibility was sent to a news outlet in Northern Ireland and used “a recognized code word,” the police said.
Code words known to the police were used by the Irish Republican Army during the Troubles, the decades-long conflict in Northern Ireland that cost more than 3,500 lives, to signal that messages claiming to come from the group — including about terrorist attacks staged in its campaign for a unified Ireland — were authentic. The Irish News, a website based in Northern Ireland’s capital, Belfast, said it had received the claim on Monday.
According to The Irish News, the group claiming responsibility said the device discovered at the University of Glasgow was intended for a British army recruitment officer who worked there. The group said the fifth device was also sent to a recruitment officer.
Photographs of the parcels published by the police showed stamps that appeared to be from the Irish postal service, reading “Love Éire” under a red heart.
The news came on the day Britain’s Parliament again rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to leave the European Union, which includes a so-called Irish backstop provision meant to avoid a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Experts have warned that uncertainty surrounding the return of a hard border and longstanding political deadlock in Northern Ireland could lead to a return of violence.
The largest and most active of the paramilitary groups favoring a return to a united Ireland was known as the Provisional I.R.A. It formally stood down after the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, largely ending the conflict, but small splinter groups have continued to carry out sporadic attacks.
In January, a car bomb exploded outside a courthouse in the town of Londonderry, Northern Ireland, without casualties. The explosion, which followed a pattern of attacks in the city like those during the Troubles, drew condemnation from across the political spectrum.
DUBAI — Iran warned on Monday that Washington's designation of its elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organisation could endanger peace and stability in the Middle East and beyond, state TV reported.
Tehran also took retaliatory action by naming the United States Central Command (CENTCOM) as a terrorist organisation and the U.S. government as a sponsor of terror. 
"This unwise and illegal measure is a major threat to regional and international stability and peace ... Iran labels the American regime as a supporter of terrorism," Iran's Supreme National Security Council said in a statement. 
U.S. President Donald Trump designated Iran's Guards a foreign terrorist organisation on Monday -- an unprecedented step that will raise tensions in the Middle East.
Iranian authorities have said the U.S. decision is a great mistake that will endanger U.S. interests in the region, where Iran is involved in proxy wars from Syria to Lebanon.
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Twitter that the move was aimed at securing the re-election of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday.
"Another misguided election-eve gift to Netanyahu", and another "dangerous US misadventure in the region", Zarif tweeted. 
Iranian Revolutionary Guards commanders have repeatedly said that U.S. bases in the Middle East and U.S. aircraft carriers in the Gulf are within range of Iranian missiles. 
Iran has threatened to disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz in the Gulf if the United States tries to strangle Tehran's economy by halting its oil exports.
 (Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by Catherine Evans)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
Venezuela’s opposition leader vows to return to the country, India and Pakistan are still at loggerheads and we go inside the Trump-Kim talks. Here’s the latest: 
Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, has toured South America for much of the past week. Defying a government-imposed travel ban, he met with the far-right president of Brazil and the center-left president of Ecuador, among others, to demonstrate the broad international support for his claim to be the legitimate leader of Venezuela. 
Each day he spends out the country, though, he risks losing the unity of opposition parties, already reeling after President Nicolás Maduro last month reduced Mr. Guaidó’s promised “aid avalanche” at the border to a few flakes. Mr. Guaidó had vowed to re-enter Venezuela as those aid shipments broke through Mr. Maduro’s blockade. He has now set a deadline of this morning for his return. 
Mr. Maduro has threatened to have him arrested. 
Bigger picture: With Mr. Maduro firmly controlling the borders, and defections from his military so far a trickle, the opposition is realizing that the government’s rule appears to be more durable than Mr. Guaidó had painted it.
Looking ahead: The secretary general of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, who is one of Mr. Guaidó’s chief international supporters, softened his demands on Mr. Maduro, saying he would not object to his running for office again in new elections if they were free and fair. 
The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers and making it clear that hostilities over the disputed Kashmir region are hardly over.
The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a good-will gesture.
Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.
Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is under renewed scrutiny. The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow its troops would have enough ammunition for only 10 days.
On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population with a dark future and under the constant threat of death.
The nuclear talks in Vietnam last week between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, were doomed before they even started, with no basic starting point established and  some of Mr. Trump’s aides questioning whether they should happen. 
Banking on the force of his own personality and their rapport, Mr. Trump offered Mr. Kim the same deal North Korea has rejected for a quarter-century: total nuclear disarmament in exchange for full sanctions relief. For his part, Mr. Kim miscalculated that Mr. Trump might accept a more modest offer. 
In an effort to maintain Mr. Trump’s détente with Mr. Kim, the Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, though a limited version is still expected to go forward. Mr. Trump first suspended the military exercises after his initial meeting with Mr. Kim last year, surprising the Pentagon. 
Another angle: North Korean hackers kept up attacks against European and American targets last week even during the meeting, cybersecurity researchers said.
If the French language has a fortress, it is the imposing Académie Française, so exclusive that some of the greatest French writers have been turned away. Since the 17th century, members known as the Immortals have updated the definitive dictionary of French in an effort to protect the language against such ravages as the “deadly snobbery of Anglo-American.” 
But lately the academy has struggled to fill vacancies, a paralysis that reflects France’s own struggle to adapt to the 21st century. “We’re the reflection of the society, and it’s a society that’s questioning itself,” one member said.
Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.
Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling was a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies to deter illegal immigration.
China: The country’s vast detention program for Muslims has required more and more police officers. Some of them are being recruited from the very ethnic groups that are being targeted.
Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.
Turkey: A suburb made up of Disney-style chateaus is no magic kingdom — it  is unfinished, in bankruptcy and much criticized for its architecture — but the minicastles are still for sale. 
Chris Grayling: The political survival of Britain’s transport minister has baffled many who accuse him of staggering incompetence, but his loyalty to Mrs. May has protected him. 
Medicine: In the U.S., a colossal battle is underway over the regulation of fecal transplants, a revolutionary procedure used to treat life-threatening problems. 
Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his discreet, focused life has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine.
Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch up to $50,000).
In memoriam: Zhores Alferov, a Russian physicist and committed communist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for research that underpinned inventions integral to modern life like solar cells and cellphones, has died at 88.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.
If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.
Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.
On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.
Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.
Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.
Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.
Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
One evening in 1996, as the Yankees clinched their first World Series in 18 years, Donald J. Trump was presiding over a masquerade ball at his sprawling Westchester County estate.
Mr. Trump intended to convert the home, a limestone mansion called Seven Springs, into a golf club, and he had recruited one of the county’s best-connected lawyers to help him do it: Albert J. Pirro Jr. The costume party was a lavish fund-raiser for Mr. Pirro’s wife, the Westchester district attorney, who greeted dozens of masked guests in her own striking get-up.
Jeanine F. Pirro had dressed as Queen Isabella of Spain.
“I was at the ballgame with George Steinbrenner, and it was great, just great,” Mr. Trump told an attendee at the time. “But this is just great, too.”
At the time, Ms. Pirro seemed destined for political stardom. Her fiery style had earned her a spot on the national TV circuit as a pundit on the O. J. Simpson case. The New Yorker was preparing a fawning profile, complete with Helmut Newton portrait. A run for lieutenant governor was in the offing; a United States Senate seat not out of the question.
But fates diverged for the luminaries in the room that night. Mr. Trump never got that golf course, though he eventually found success in bigger endeavors. Mr. Pirro would go to jail for tax evasion, tailed by rumors about Mafia ties and revelations that he fathered a child out of wedlock.
And Ms. Pirro fell to earth. Though she was never charged, her husband’s crimes damaged her political hopes; a Senate run in 2005 collapsed after she stumbled over her announcement speech. Later, she admitted to trying to wiretap Mr. Pirro’s yacht to catch him in an affair. (The couple are now divorced.) She scratched out a second act in daytime TV, hosting a low-rated courtroom show with C-list guests like Joey Buttafuoco. Another series, “You the Jury,” was canceled after two episodes.
And yet Ms. Pirro, 67, is in the midst of a late-in-life renaissance — as improbable and as polarizing as any of the twists in her unusual career.
Banished to a Siberia time slot — Saturday at 9 p.m. — Ms. Pirro has used an unrelenting defense of President Trump to put her weekly Fox News show, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” at the heart of the national political conversation.
Stymied in her hopes for a Senate seat, she now has a direct line to the president. Her thunderous monologues calling for the imprisonment of federal prosecutors, or accusing the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, of treason, attract a devoted audience — not least in the West Wing, where Mr. Trump, a regular viewer, urges his millions of Twitter followers to tune in.
“She was in the right place at the right time with the right approach, and she’s taken advantage of it,” said Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s lawyer and a frequent guest, who shared a table with Ms. Pirro at Mr. Trump’s 2005 wedding to Melania Knauss.
Despite the Saturday time slot, Ms. Pirro averages an audience of more than two million viewers an episode. That’s more than the average number of people who watch the MSNBC host Chris Hayes on weeknights. “Saturday Night Live” parodied her on “Weekend Update” last month.
The president has taken notice. “I like being on air with your beautiful ratings,” Mr. Trump told Ms. Pirro when he called in for a chummy interview in October, one of three he has granted the host.
If “Meet the Press” is aimed at the Washington establishment, “Justice With Judge Jeanine” is red meat for the Make America Great Again set. “Judge Pirro has understood the MAGA movement since Day 1,” said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager.
Her reputation among pro-Trump conservatives has only grown since March, when she was suspended by Fox News after questioning the patriotism of Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, asking on air if the Muslim lawmaker’s religious beliefs undermined her loyalty to the United States. The remark prompted protests at Fox headquarters and a rare intramural rebuke by the network, which renounced her comments.
Ms. Pirro has a history of remarks deemed Islamophobic, declaring in 2015 that “we need to kill them, the radical Muslim terrorists hellbent on killing us.” But if the suspension was meant as punishment, it served only to supercharge her support from Mr. Trump, who tweeted a rallying cry: “Bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.”
Ms. Pirro never apologized. When she made her return on March 30, her show drew 2.56 million viewers, beating the competition on ABC and CBS.
For those who view Ms. Pirro as a camera-hungry opportunist — an accusation that has followed her from her days as a local prosecutor, when she sought out appearances with national TV hosts like Geraldo Rivera — her recent success is evidence of a willingness to bend principles for fame.
“I couldn’t imagine many of those comments coming from the person I knew,” said Mayo Bartlett, a lawyer who served under Ms. Pirro as an assistant district attorney. “After 9/11, there were a lot of anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hate crimes, and I had the green light from her to prosecute those cases. We stood with that community when they were really being targeted.”
A daughter of Lebanese-American parents, Ms. Pirro was raised Catholic in blue-collar Elmira, N.Y. Her mother was born in the United States, but spent much of her childhood in Beirut, where she later met Ms. Pirro’s father, a veteran of the United States Navy, after World War II.
“I learned to fight from my mother,” Ms. Pirro wrote in a 2003 memoir. “She impressed upon me throughout my childhood that I had to fight for myself, and I had to help those who were not strong enough to fight for themselves.”
Inspired by “Perry Mason,” Ms. Pirro dreamed of becoming a prosecutor, eventually starting one of the country’s first domestic-violence prosecution units. She was a centrist Republican in deep-blue New York, praised by Democrats like Geraldine Ferraro.
Now the Council on American-Islamic Relations is calling for Ms. Pirro to be fired. Ibrahim Hooper, the group’s communications director, pointed to the arrest last week of a man who threatened to kill Ms. Omar. Ms. Pirro, he said, “contributes to the toxic atmosphere in which that kind of violent behavior rises to the surface.”
Ms. Pirro declined to be interviewed for this article. In response to Mr. Hooper’s comment, Fox News referred to its prior statement condemning Ms. Pirro’s remarks about Ms. Omar, the Muslim lawmaker.
On the air, Ms. Pirro has echoed comments from her past, particularly when she attacks the investigation into possible ties between Mr. Trump and Russia, which she recently called “the biggest scandal in American history, bar none.”
In 2006, under investigation for bugging her husband’s boat, she called the inquiry a “witch hunt.” During Mr. Pirro’s trial in 2001, she denounced prosecutors for “a desperate attempt by them to bring me in this wherever they can.”
Although Ms. Pirro signed the couple’s joint tax return, she maintained she was unaware of her husband’s misdeeds. His trial dredged up embarrassing details about the Pirros’ spending, like a $1,800 wrought-iron pen for Ms. Pirro’s two Vietnamese potbellied pigs, Wilbur and Homer.
Fox News started “Justice With Judge Jeanine” in 2011. The show got a boost in 2015 from “The Jinx,” the popular HBO documentary about the real estate scion Robert Durst. As district attorney, Ms. Pirro reopened an investigation into the disappearance of Mr. Durst’s first wife. Though she never brought charges, Ms. Pirro later trailed Mr. Durst to his murder trial in Texas and spoke on TV so frequently about the case that she earned a gag order from the judge.
Ms. Pirro’s book “He Killed Them All: Robert Durst and My Quest for Justice” was called a gift to Mr. Durst’s defense lawyers by her critics, who faulted her attacks on investigators involved in the case. Relatives of Mr. Durst’s slain wife challenged some of the book’s claims. And the co-author, Lisa DePaulo, sued Ms. Pirro, saying the host forced her to perform menial tasks and tried to include material that she knew to be untrue. (The lawsuit was dismissed last month.)
On Instagram, Ms. Pirro presents a sunnier view of her life. She poses with her standard poodle, Sir Lancelot, and offers glimpses of her Westchester estate, which is outfitted Trump-style with imported marble. David Hebert, who served as a spokesman and assistant district attorney under Ms. Pirro, said in an interview that Ms. Pirro rose from setbacks “like a phoenix” and wished that critics knew her as “generous, kind, thoughtful.”
“We did a lot of work in the district attorney’s office reaching out to people who are disadvantaged and disenfranchised, to women and children and immigrants,” recalled Mr. Hebert, who is now the city manager of Oakland Park, Fla. “We made a special point of communicating on a regular basis with people who were not legal that they should not fear law enforcement.”
On Saturday, Ms. Pirro opened her Fox News program by lamenting the number of immigrants attempting to enter the United States. “One hundred thousand in one month, brought in just this past month,” she declared. “That’s what I just said — 100,000 in one month. That’s bigger than the town that I grew up in.”
In an interview, Mr. Giuliani was asked if he thought it unseemly for Ms. Pirro, a former prosecutor, to describe Justice Department leaders as potential traitors plotting a coup.
“Who better to criticize them,” Mr. Giuliani replied, “than someone who knows how it’s done?”
The delicate relations between two former Yugoslav republics took a bitter and bizarre turn on Thursday as Bosnia and Herzegovina’s security minister accused Croatia of concocting a plot intended to falsely paint Bosnia as a terrorist hotbed.
The security minister, Dragan Mektic, accused Croatia’s intelligence service of trying to coerce a Bosnian citizen into transporting weapons and explosives to a mosque inside Bosnia.
If the weapons were then discovered, Mr. Mektic said in an interview with The New York Times, the cache could be portrayed as part of a terrorist plot.
Top Croatian officials called the allegations groundless, saying they were an effort to damage ties between the two countries.
The dispute comes as Muslim-majority Bosnia has accused Croatia for about a year of interfering in its internal affairs. It has said that Croatia is trying to wrest increased political influence for the Croatian ethnic group in Bosnia. Croatia’s ultimate hope, some in Bosnia have alleged, is the formation of a separate Croatian entity within Bosnia.
Bosnia’s accusations of a plot to tarnish its reputation were first reported on Wednesday by a Bosnian investigative outlet, Zurnal. The publication said that a Bosnian man who lives in the European Union was intercepted when crossing the Croatian border by the country’s Security and Intelligence Agency.
Over time, the agency used the man’s support of groups associated with Salafism, a puritanical strain of Islam, to pressure him to take the weapons and explosives to a mosque in the vicinity of Zenica, a town northwest of Sarajevo. His support of Salifist causes, if known in the European Union country where he lives, would raise alarms.
It is not known when the man was intercepted by the Croats or how far the plot progressed.
The motivation of the Croatian security service, Mr. Mektic said in the interview with The Times, was to present Bosnia as a “country of terrorists and terrorist camps, and a threat to regional security.”
“They dug into his past and blackmailed him into doing this,” Mr. Mektic said. “This citizen was employed in a European Union country, and they threatened to cause problems for him there.”
The Croatian prime minister, president and Ministry of Foreign Affairs said they “categorically dismissed these statements and allegations made by Dragan Mektic.”
“The entirely groundless and utterly tendentious statements are clearly aimed at questioning the successful cooperation between the two countries,” the foreign ministry said in a news release.
But those ties have been strained by earlier Croatian efforts to link Bosnia to terrorism. More than a year ago, the Croatian president, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, caused outrage in Bosnia and Herzegovina by claiming that “several thousand terrorists” would be returning there after the fall of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate.
People in Bosnia believed they were being scapegoated because of their religion.
Local news outlets have reported that at least 200 men and around 70 women left Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Islamic State-controlled territory in Syria and Iraq.
Bosnia was one of the first European countries to declare that it would accept its nationals who had fought for the Islamic State and are currently held in Kurdish-run camps in northern Syria.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is held together by a fragile peace agreement struck at the end of the conflict in 1995, part of the breakup of Yugoslavia. The pact defines the political roles of the three main ethnic groups, Muslim Bosniaks, Catholic Croats and Orthodox Serbs.
Croatia, a member of the European Union, holds a certain level of influence over the former Yugoslav countries like Bosnia that are in the waiting line to join the bloc.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
Huawei gets a potential boost in Europe, Saudi Arabia courts Asia and scientists try to figure out why zebras have stripes. Here’s the latest: 
In addition to the president’s public criticism of the many investigations that have consumed his time in the White House, an examination by The Times found a sustained, behind-the-scenes effort by Mr. Trump to beat back the probes. 
Details: The president tried to install a perceived loyalist in charge of a federal inquiry looking into hush money payments for women who, during the presidential campaign, claimed that they had sex with Mr. Trump.
How we know: Times reporters interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump, and reviewed confidential White House documents.
Why it matters: Mr. Trump’s public and secret efforts to undermine the investigation and unleash an unprecedented attack of his own law enforcement apparatus have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice. Here are more takeaways from our investigation.
Reaction: Mr. Trump dismissed the reporting as false and called The Times a “true enemy of the people” — invoking a term Nazi Germany and Stalin-era Soviets used to vilify opponents.
Other White House news: The president is preparing to establish a panel to review scientific and defense warnings that climate change is a profound risk to national security. It is to include a physicist who has gained notoriety in the scientific community for suggesting that carbon dioxide — widely believed to be a damaging greenhouse gas — is beneficial to humanity.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has landed in China for meetings with President Xi Jinping and other officials — the last stop of a whirlwind tour that also included Pakistan and India.
His swing through the region is aimed at deepening economic ties. More broadly, it reflects the kingdom’s efforts to diversify its alliances after relations with Western nations soured.
Background: Western countries have been distancing themselves since the killing of a dissident writer, Jamal Khashoggi, in Turkey last year, which many suspect was directed by the prince. There has also been increasing scrutiny of the kingdom’s role in the war in Yemen, which the U.N. has called the world’s worst current humanitarian disaster.
Why it matters: Saudi Arabia’s renewed focus on Asian countries that have prioritized economic cooperation with the kingdom over human rights concerns sends a signal to the West. “The message is that there are other options out there,” said one expert.
In the U.S.: House Democrats opened an investigation this week into the Trump administration’s plans to circumvent normal policymaking process to build nuclear power plants in Saudi Arabia, which they say could spread nuclear weapons technology in the volatile Middle East. 
Britain, it seems, isn’t too worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and a proxy for espionage.
The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.
Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether or not to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network.
Countries across Europe that are also considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely, looking for clues on whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.
The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.
The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has always denied the claims.
A prominent scholar and intellectual, Professor Anand Teltumbde, who has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was jailed and could be charged with conspiring “to overthrow the established government.”
But human rights activists and academics around the world, including Noam Chomsky, view the case against him as part of the government’s effort to quash criticism ahead of crucial elections later this year.
Background: In a speech in 2017, Mr. Teltumbde compared Mr. Modi to Hitler, saying his policies — which are rooted in Hindu nationalism — amounted to “fascism.” He also blamed the prime minister for religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 that killed more than 1,000 people.
Reaction: Alarmed intellectuals have signed international petitions calling on the U.N. to intervene. 
Islamic State: Two American women who traveled to Syria to join the terrorist group and married its fighters now regret their decisions and want to come back home. Their prospects of doing so may be limited.
The Forbidden City: For the first time since 1925, the historic Beijing landmark has opened its doors to the public at night for two days this week, allowing visitors to view its palaces and temples in ethereal lighting.
China: Hundreds of people gathered in Beijing to mourn Li Rui, 104, a former aide to Mao Zedong who later became a vocal critic of the party. The funeral followed Communist Party protocol, which his daughter said he would have not have wanted.
K-Pop: South Korea’s government, concerned about how “identical” pop stars with the same delicate features and slim figures influence the country’s youth, issued broadcast guidelines to restrict their presence on TV. The move drew widespread criticism from fans, including comparisons to censorship during the country’s military dictatorship.
Cyberattacks: Microsoft said that a group of hackers with ties to the Kremlin’s intelligence apparatus targeted research groups and nongovernmental organizations across Europe ahead of European Parliament elections in May, the latest attempt to disrupt opponents of President Vladimir Putin.
Brexit: Britain’s divorce from the E.U. is straining its political structures. Three lawmakers who represent the more pro-European wing of Britain’s governing Conservatives resigned from their party in protest of hard-liners’ influence on much of the E.U. withdrawal plan. Two days earlier, eight lawmakers quit the opposition Labour Party.
Europe: At a time when populism threatens to undermine the cohesiveness of the bloc, Germany and the Netherlands have come together to create the world’s first binational battalion, an informal test case for a European army.
The Roman Catholic Church: Pope Francis and other church leaders convene today for an unprecedented conference on clerical sexual abuse. Ahead of that gathering, our Op-Ed columnist Frank Bruni weighs in on a different problem confronting the church: its treatment of gay Catholics.
“Game of Thrones”: With just under two months to go before HBO releases the eighth and final season of its biggest-ever hit, The Times is rolling out a preseason guide to rewatching the first seven seasons, with a deep dive into plot twists and themes you might have forgotten and tributes to the characters loved and lost. Sign up here to get it by email.
Zebra science: Scientists dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Feed the kids in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.
Drowning in plastic? We have nine steps to help you cut down your single-use plastic consumption.
If you have a chronic illness, researching it will help you take control, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.
“In fortune, children, friends, or wife,
Owe all their zest to thee.”
Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.
Mahomed — who died on or around this day in 1851 — had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.
But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”
He claimed the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing, or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”
He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.
Your briefing writer, Alisha Haridasani Gupta, wrote today’s Back Story. 
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
DAKAR, Senegal — When terrorists in Africa delivered two devastating attacks last month, they invoked a battle cry seldom heard in recent militant activity on the continent: the Palestinian cause.
The gunmen in a hotel complex in Kenya and a military installation in Mali were lauded by Al Qaeda’s central leadership, which praised its branches in Somalia and Mali for the deadly attacks.
“We emphasize and appreciate the high efforts and beautiful words of all the vibrant jihadist work to prevent the Judaization of Palestine,” a statement from the group’s leaders said, according to SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online extremist content.
The rallying cry, thousands of miles away from where the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is playing out, was ordered up by Ayman al-Zawahri, the head of Al Qaeda who late last year reiterated calls for the group’s franchises to target Zionists.
Major terrorist activities by Qaeda branches in sub-Saharan Africa in recent years seem motivated by other causes, security analysts said. They were intended to expand into new territory, lash out at Western military action or remind the world of Al Qaeda’s relevance as global powers focused on its headline-grabbing rival, the Islamic State.
In the last two weeks, thousands of people have been streaming out of the last parcels of land under Islamic State control in Iraq and Syria. The group once controlled an area the size of Britain.
“The Islamic State is, to a certain extent, on its back foot right now, allowing Al Qaeda an opportunity to remind people who they are and that they too have a geopolitical agenda,” said Jason Warner, director of Africa research for West Point’s Combating Terrorism Center.
The Qaeda affiliates behind the attacks in Mali and Kenya both cited the Palestinian cause as a motive.
In the first attack, gunmen from the Shabab, the East Africa franchise of Al Qaeda, stormed a hotel complex in Nairobi, Kenya, and killed 14, with many more wounded. Days later in Mali, JNIM, the North African franchise of Al Qaeda, targeted peacekeeping soldiers from Chad, killing 10 and wounding 25.
The attacks came fully seven months after President Trump moved the American Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, the disputed holy city, which Mr. Trump recognized as the country’s capital. Widely seen as inflaming tensions and as a demonstration of the administration’s favoritism toward Israel in its long conflict with the Palestinians, the move drew condemnation at the time from many corners, including Al Qaeda and other extremist militant organizations.
The suffering of the Palestinians has long been an animating cause for Al Qaeda, a stand-in for the victimization of Muslims at the hands of Western powers. Biographies of Osama bin Laden say that as an adolescent, he cried watching news coverage of displaced Palestinians who had been forced off their land.
For its part, the Shabab has talked of liberating Jerusalem for more than a decade. And a past iteration of JNIM called for attacking Jews after Israel temporarily closed a prominent mosque in Jerusalem in 2017.
Al Qaeda appears to have seized on the moving of the embassy as a rationale for attacks.
“This rhetoric is, of course, exactly what it looks like: opportunistic exploitation of a major human rights issue and geopolitical controversy,” said Rita Katz, co-founder of SITE. “Outside of this rhetoric, Al Qaeda has not actually provided any sort of effective assistance to Palestinians.”
Mr. Zawahri has been hammering on the issue in communications since at least September.
“When Trump insists on moving the American Embassy to Jerusalem as an open show of American recognition of Jerusalem as the eternal capital of Israel, his decision does not emerge from a vacuum; rather it is a clear-cut articulation of this Judeo-Christian bias,” he said in one message, according to SITE, which provided a translation.
“Consider Palestine. Who leads the gang of criminals who have violated its sanctity? It is again America,” Mr. Zawahri said.
Then, at the end of December, he urged Saudi Muslims to wage jihad and called on them to attack American and Israeli interests, according to SITE. He specifically cited the embassy move.
“When the Americans decided to reveal their blatant hostility to the Muslims, they did so without shame, where Trump announced the new stage, starting with the transfer of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem,” he said.
For Israel, the violence may serve to advance its efforts to make common cause with African regimes, particularly on security issues.
The attacks in Kenya and Mali also coincided with Israel’s stepping up its influence on the African continent. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu traveled to Chad days before the attack in Mali, which operatives cited as a reason for targeting Chadians.
Since 2016, Israel has made a concerted strategic push into Africa, from Conakry on the Atlantic Coast to the Horn of Africa in the east. It reinstated long-severed diplomatic ties, chipping away at what had been a reliable bloc of votes against Israel in the United Nations, and flexing its muscles in a part of the world where African solidarity with Muslim nations had for decades mandated rejection of relations with Israel.
“Israel has returned to Africa, and in a big way,” Mr. Netanyahu declared on a visit to Liberia in 2017.
The Israeli leader has made four trips to the continent since mid-2016, and a visit to Israel by the prime minister of Mali, another majority-Muslim country that cut its ties in the 1970s, is expected soon, according to Israeli news media.
In January, Mr. Netanyahu traveled to Chad where he restored ties that had been severed in 1972, calling it evidence of a “revolution in our relations with the Arab and Muslim world.”
The push into Africa has not been welcomed by everyone in Israel. Some think Mr. Netanyahu should deal with issues closer to home.
Avi Gabbay, head of the left-leaning Labor Party and a candidate for prime minister, said that if Israel really wants to normalize, it needs to open ties with the Persian Gulf countries. And that is not going to happen without movement on the peace process, which under Mr. Netanyahu has been at a virtual standstill for years.
“Chad, all due respect, has about 12 million people and I don’t know how many have telephones or internet,” Mr. Gabbay said. “Chad is just covering up for the fact that he’s not dealing with the Palestinian issue.”
As a tangible benefit to Israeli consumers from its African diplomacy, the Netanyahu government highlighted the possibility of commercial overflight agreements that would shorten the travel time from Tel Aviv to Latin America by a few hours. But the symbolic value of each large Muslim country that normalizes ties with Israel may far surpass any practical gains, experts said.
In East Africa, at least, Israel’s efforts involve its own security concerns like preventing Hamas, the militant group that controls the Palestinian territory of Gaza, from importing Iranian weapons and munitions by the Red Sea. According to American officials, Israel bombed a weapons convoy bound for Gaza in Sudan in 2009, before Sudan broke off relations with Iran.
Similarly, Israel sees Ethiopia and Kenya as close allies against Islamists in Somalia who perpetrated the 2013 attack on the Israeli-owned Westgate Mall in Nairobi that killed 71 people. Israel has also turned to both Rwanda and Uganda to accept African migrants it wants to deport.
For African nations, Israel is attractive as a source of military expertise, arms and, in particular, military drones. Governments like Mali’s, hard-pressed to control vast territories, see drones as a way to keep tabs on insurgent groups.
And Mr. Netanyahu’s close relationship with President Trump has given him added cachet with African leaders eager to find favor with the White House.
On the civilian side, Israeli advances in drip-irrigation, desalination and water-purification technology promise to enhance agriculture in arid regions. Israel’s small renewable-energy industry first brought solar power to Rwanda in 2015 and a year ago, Israel signed on to the American-led Power Africa initiative to bring electricity to 60 million homes.
The country’s engagement in Africa may actually be coming full circle.
In the 1950s and 1960s, Israeli and African leaders bonded over their nations’ anticolonial struggles as Israel aided African armies and paramilitary organizations. The Arab boycott in the 1970s led to pressure on African leaders to cut ties with Israel, and Israel’s response — forging close ties with what was then the apartheid government of South Africa — only worsened its standing elsewhere on the continent.
Israeli officials can barely contain their glee at seeing the once-solid ideological support for the Palestinians give way to flexible geopolitics.
“When these guys would get together at the Organization of African States, now the African Union, this was some of the paste that binded them together,” said Dore Gold, a former director-general of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “But things have changed completely. They really don’t buy into this anymore,” he said.
“The militant Arabs, our adversaries, have less to offer the Africans. And we have a great deal to offer,” Mr. Gold said.
He recalled taking a team of emissaries to Chad in 2016 and meeting for talks at an oasis in the Sahara, where one of his counterparts mentioned that the nations’ diplomatic ties had been severed in 1972 under pressure from Muammar el-Qaddafi, then the Libyan dictator.
“I said, ‘Qaddafi’s dead, Libya itself is falling apart.’ So they said to me, ‘That’s why you’re here.’”
LONDON — The Latest on the global push to increase regulation of social media (all times local):
3:30 p.m.
A European Union lawmakers' committee has approved a proposal to fine internet companies up to 4 percent of their revenue if they don't remove terrorist content within one hour of being notified by authorities.
An EU parliamentary committee approved the draft legislation on Monday despite heavy opposition from digital rights groups, tech trade bodies and some lawmakers.
They said the one-hour deadline is too short and, combined with the threat of big fines, would encourage companies to err on the side of caution by "over-removing" lawful content.
Critics also say it places a bigger burden on smaller internet companies than on tech giants like Facebook and Google, which can use their own automated filters. They worry U.S. tech giants would end up becoming the web's de facto censors.
___
8:50 a.m.
The U.K. has proposed directly regulating social media companies for the first time, with senior executives potentially facing fines if they fail to block damaging content such as terrorist propaganda or images of child abuse.
The regulations proposed Monday would create a statutory "duty of care" for social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter to protect young people who use their sites. The rules would be overseen by an independent regulator funded by a levy on internet companies.
Media Secretary Jeremy Wright says: "Voluntary actions from industry to tackle online harms have not been applied consistently or gone far enough."
The proposed regulations were released for public comment on Monday.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Wednesday weakened a rule that required the government to annually make public its estimates of civilian bystanders killed in airstrikes outside conventional war zones — increasing the secrecy that cloaks one of the most contentious aspects of the fight against terrorists.
In an executive order, Mr. Trump revoked a disclosure requirement that President Barack Obama  imposed in July 2016. The change was the latest in a series of ways that Mr. Trump has dismantled the architecture that Mr. Obama built over time to constrain the use of drone strikes and commando raids targeting Islamist militants in places like tribal Pakistan and rural Yemen.
But Mr. Trump’s executive order noted that since 2016, Congress has enacted a law that separately requires the Pentagon to issue annual reports about bystander deaths from all of its operations, including in conventional war zones like Afghanistan and Syria.
Citing that law, the National Security Council said in a statement that the Obama-era rule amounted to “superfluous reporting requirements, requirements that do not improve government transparency, but rather distract our intelligence professionals from their primary mission.”
Still, the law requiring disclosure of bystander deaths covers only the Defense Department’s operations. It does not extend to airstrikes by the C.I.A., which has carried out its own drone campaign targeting terrorism suspects in countries such as Pakistan and Yemen.
Rita Siemion, the international legal counsel at Human Rights First, a nonprofit advocacy group, criticized the Trump administration’s move.
“It’s a major step backwards that’s out of touch with what the D.O.D. is doing and what Congress has been focused on,” she said, referring to the Defense Department.
The revocation of the disclosure rule joins other steps Mr. Trump has taken since becoming president to dismantle constraints Mr. Obama had imposed on counterterrorism operations.
Soon after taking office, Mr. Trump quietly deemed large sections of Yemen and Somalia to be “areas of active hostilities” subject to war-zone rules. In battle, it can be lawful to carry out a strike at a military target, knowing that some nearby civilians may die, so long as the collateral damage is deemed to be necessary and proportionate.
And later in 2017, Mr. Trump rescinded a set of rules, known as the Presidential Policy Guidance, that the Obama administration had imposed on counterterrorism operations away from hot battlefields. Those limits included a requirement that targets of kill missions by the military and the C.I.A. be limited to high-level militants rather than foot-soldier jihadists without any special training or leadership role, and a requirement for high-level, interagency vetting of proposed attacks.
Still, Mr. Trump’s changes in 2017 left in place a requirement that strikes away from conventional war zones take place only when military officers had “near certainty” that no civilians would be killed. Similarly, his executive order on Wednesday left in place other aspects of Mr. Obama’s directive that require the government to make a priority of preventing civilian casualties.
“The United States government is fully committed to complying with its obligations under the law of armed conflict, minimizing, to the greatest extent possible, civilian casualties, and acknowledging responsibility when they unfortunately occur during military operations,” the National Security Council statement said.
In a sense, Mr. Trump’s revocation of the disclosure rule amounted to a belated acknowledgment that his administration had already changed the Obama policy in practice: The director of national intelligence never put out a report about bystander casualties in 2017, even though the Obama-era order requiring one remained on the books last year, when the report was due out.
Several other factors somewhat lowered the stakes of Mr. Trump’s move. First, the C.I.A. appears to be carrying out fewer drone strikes than it did during the height of the Obama administration’s counterterrorism operations.
The last drone strike was reported more than a year ago in the tribal area of Pakistan, where the C.I.A. took the lead in handling airstrikes, according to Bill Roggio, a senior fellow at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, who has tracked airstrikes for more than a decade on his Long War Journal. While Yemen is still being bombed, it is hard to determine whether the American government or the Saudi-Emirati coalition battling the Houthis, an Iran-allied rebel faction, are conducting the strikes, he said.
Moreover, even when the Obama administration revealed the official assessment of how many civilians had died, those numbers were merely a vague range and lower than estimates by outsiders like the Long War Journal, the Washington-based security policy organization New America and the London-based Bureau of Investigative Journalism.
The Obama administration estimated that from its start in 2009 until mid-2016, 64 to 116 civilian bystanders were killed in such strikes. Outside groups’ estimates ranged from roughly 200 to 800. But because the official statistics did not break numbers down by location and date, it was difficult to make sense of the discrepancy.
“I think we will never truly know the number of civilians killed in airstrikes in these areas away from active battlefields,” Mr. Roggio said. “The reality is that these strikes take place where the government, news organizations and human rights groups have limited visibility, and the enemy has shown a propensity to attempt to manipulate the information.”
Joshua Geltzer, who served as the senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council from 2015 to 2017, acknowledged that the disclosure rule did not go as far as human rights groups wanted. But he said it was nevertheless a major step forward whose loss may create security risks, not just increase secrecy.
“This is a bad move not just for transparency, but also for those who believe that tools like drone strikes need to remain available to the government for countering terrorism,” he said. “The continued availability of that tool rests in part in confidence in how it is being used, and this was an important step in giving the public some insight into that.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s national security adviser, John R. Bolton, rolled back on Sunday Mr. Trump’s decision to rapidly withdraw from Syria, laying out conditions for a pullout that could leave American forces there for months or even years.
Mr. Bolton, making a visit to Israel, told reporters that American forces would remain in Syria until the last remnants of the Islamic State were defeated and Turkey provided guarantees that it would not strike Kurdish forces allied with the United States. He and other top White House advisers have led a behind-the-scenes effort to slow Mr. Trump’s order and reassure allies, including Israel.
“We don’t think the Turks ought to undertake military action that’s not fully coordinated with and agreed to by the United States, at a minimum so they don’t endanger our troops,” Mr. Bolton said in Jerusalem, where he was traveling ahead of a visit Tuesday to Turkey.
Mr. Bolton’s comments inserted into Mr. Trump’s strategy something the president had omitted when he announced on Dec. 19 that the United States would depart within 30 days: any conditions that must be met before the pullout.
The remarks also reflected the disarray that has surrounded the president’s decision, which took his staff and foreign allies by surprise and drew objections from the Pentagon that it was logistically impossible and strategically unwise. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis resigned within hours of the announcement, and the Pentagon chief of staff, Kevin M. Sweeney, said on Saturday evening that he was also leaving.
While Mr. Bolton said on Sunday that he expected American forces to eventually leave northeastern Syria, where most of the 2,000 troops in the country are based for the mission against the Islamic State, he began to lay out an argument for keeping some troops at a garrison in the southeast that is used to monitor the flow of Iranian arms and soldiers. In September, three months before Mr. Trump’s announcement, Mr. Bolton had declared that the United States would remain in Syria as long as Iranians were on the ground there.
Asked on CBS News’s “Face the Nation” if Mr. Bolton’s comments amounted to an admission that Mr. Trump had made a mistake, Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who at times has been one of the president’s staunchest supporters, said, “This is the reality setting in that you’ve got to plan this out.”
Mr. Graham, who described the dangers of making the announcement first and then considering the longer-term implications, added, “The president is slowing down and is re-evaluating his policies in light of those three objectives: Don’t let Iran get the oil fields, don’t let the Turks slaughter the Kurds, and don’t let ISIS come back.”
The move to reverse course on Mr. Trump’s promised swift withdrawal picked up in recent days, even as Mr. Bolton worked to avoid openly confronting the president the way Mr. Mattis did. On Friday, in a briefing for reporters about a forthcoming trip to the Middle East by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, a senior State Department official said there was no fixed timetable for the American withdrawal.
Asked about the shifting timeline on Sunday as he left the White House for meetings about border security at Camp David, Mr. Trump told reporters that he had “never said we were doing it that quickly.” In a video on the evening of his announcement in December, he had said that “our boys, our young women, our men — they’re all coming back, and they’re coming back now,” though he later extended that to four months.
Now, the four-month schedule appears highly in doubt. The conditions Mr. Bolton described, including the complete defeat of the Islamic State and the guarantees from Turkey, could easily stretch out.
Mr. Bolton will meet on Tuesday with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, who argued to Mr. Trump in a phone call last month that the Islamic State had been defeated, and that American troops were therefore no longer needed to aid Kurdish fighters. Turkey considers the Kurdish forces a terrorist body bent on carving out a separate nation.
Before the Turkey visit, Mr. Bolton was expected to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel over dinner on Sunday evening. Mr. Netanyahu has also been concerned about the American plan, for fear it will leave a vacuum and embolden Iran.
In Jerusalem, Mr. Bolton described the conditions as “policy decisions that we need to implement,” and he said a timeline for a withdrawal would be necessary only once those stipulations were met. He said that Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, would negotiate with Turkish officials this week over the protection of the Kurdish fighters.
Mr. Bolton’s comments seemed to expand on a classified memo he wrote to cabinet officials on Dec. 24 that outlined a strategy for Turkish troops to replace the roughly 2,000 American troops conducting counterterrorism operations against the Islamic State in northeastern Syria, according to two Defense Department officials.
Mr. Bolton’s memo came after Mr. Trump and Mr. Erdogan spoke by phone on Dec. 23. After that conversation, Mr. Trump tweeted: “I just had a long and productive call with President @RT_Erdogan of Turkey. We discussed ISIS, our mutual involvement in Syria, & the slow & highly coordinated pullout of U.S. troops from the area. After many years they are coming home.”
Mr. Bolton also wrote in the memo, which was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, that the administration’s objectives in Syria remained consistent. Those goals have included routing the Islamic State from its last enclaves in the Middle Euphrates River Valley, ousting Iranian-commanded forces and pursuing a diplomatic resolution to the country’s civil war.
Pentagon officials almost immediately expressed skepticism that the Turkish military, which has struggled to carry out limited operations along its border with Syria in the past two years, could execute expansive counterterrorism operations deeper into Syria, toward the border with Iraq. Moreover, American military planners said any Turkish movements into northeastern Syria would lead to clashes with the Syrian Kurdish-Arab coalition known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, or S.D.F.
The Pentagon’s skepticism about the plan only heightened in recent days when in response to Mr. Bolton’s memo, Turkish authorities asked the United States for significant military support, including airstrikes, logistics and transportation. Three Defense Department officials said that despite Mr. Bolton’s memo, there had been no planning for any turnover of counterterrorism operations to the Turks.
American forces are beginning the preparations for a withdrawal from northeastern Syria, even as the timetable has become increasingly fluid.
After meeting in Iraq on Dec. 26 with Lt. Gen. Paul LaCamera, the top American commander in Iraq and Syria, Mr. Trump agreed to increase the time for the drawdown from 30 days to four months. That would provide enough time to decide where else in the region to move the huge amounts of military equipment, how much, if any, would remain behind with Kurdish-Arab allies, and what might be disabled to avoid falling into the hands of the Syrian government or its Russian and Iranian allies.
NEW DELHI — Pakistan is not doing enough to curb terrorism financing and money laundering, a global financial watchdog said Friday in a stern warning that reflects renewed scrutiny of the country’s links to militant groups.
The Financial Action Task Force, a watchdog based in Paris, hinted that Pakistan could face consequences — like being placed on the group’s blacklist — if it had not taken specific steps by May.
Even remaining on the watchdog’s gray list would have consequences, complicating Pakistan’s ability to raise money on international markets at a time when its economy is sputtering and it is in dire need of loans. A blacklisting could lead to sanctions by Western countries, including the United States.
The warning comes a week after India threatened to retaliate against Pakistan for a bombing that killed at least 40 Indian soldiers in Kashmir. The militant group that claimed responsibility, Jaish-e-Muhammad, or Army of Muhammad, operates in Pakistan, where it raises money under aliases, according to American and Indian officials.
Khurram Hussain, a columnist with Dawn, Pakistan’s leading English-language newspaper, said the statement by the Financial Action Task Force was its “most strident one” in 10 years.
“It seems like somebody somewhere has run out of patience with Pakistan, and FATF is channeling it,” he said. “Previous governments have tried to take the same actions to list these groups as terrorist entities and limit their activity but have failed to do so.”
The watchdog’s statement named Jaish-e-Muhammad specifically — a rare callout for the group — as well as the Islamic State, Al Qaeda, the Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which India and the United States accuse of orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed over 160 people.
The statement provided a list of actions that it sought from Pakistan by May, accusing local law enforcement of failing to investigate or crack down on terrorists.
Pakistan has not shown a “proper understanding” of the risks that terrorist groups pose and needs to undertake “remedial actions and sanctions” against them, the statement added.
It went on to demand that the Pakistani authorities identify cash couriers and prevent them from moving illicit money out of the country; that effective action is taken against groups that are prosecuted for financing terrorists; and that suspect groups are denied resources to launder or raise money for terrorist activities.
Pakistan was put on the watchdog’s gray list last year for failing to act against Lashkar-e-Taiba and its suspected political front, Jamaat-ud-Dawa. This week, fearing its status on the gray list would be renewed, Pakistan renewed its bans on Jamaat-ud-Dawa and another affiliate, which had lapsed earlier. But the task force went ahead with its rebuke hours later, signaling that the move was too little, too late.
Although last year Pakistan initially seized some assets of the groups believed to be fronts for Lashkar-e-Taiba, officials’ efforts waned, and the groups remain active.
Pakistan’s finance minister responded Friday on Twitter to the unusually harsh statement by the Financial Action Task Force, saying that the group’s board had kept Pakistan on the gray list “despite hectic efforts and lobbying to get us black listed.”
But the post by the finance minister, Asad Umar, may make matters worse by failing to express any commitment to the watchdog’s targets.
The United Nations and the United States Treasury Department consider Jaish-e-Muhammad a terrorist organization. Several moves by the United Nations Security Council to impose sanctions on the group’s leader, Masood Azhar, have failed because of vetoes by China, an ally of Pakistan.
But on Thursday night the Security Council, including China, condemned the Jaish-e-Muhammad attack on Indian soldiers in a forceful statement.
Sensing growing pressure over Jaish-e-Muhammad’s activities in Pakistan, the Interior Ministry said on Friday evening that the government had taken control of the group’s headquarters in Punjab Province.
But if past actions are any guide, new steps like this one are likely to be temporary and cosmetic. Pakistan’s military denies accusations by the United States that it protects certain terrorist groups, using them as tools to achieve foreign and domestic policy objectives.
The United Nations is expected in coming weeks to advance a resolution to blacklist Mr. Azhar, the Jaish-e-Muhammad leader, though last week China ignored Indian demands to renew efforts to penalize him. Targeting Mr. Azhar specifically would make it harder for the group to raise funds in Pakistan.
The financial task force will make a final decision this year on whether to remove Pakistan from its gray list, place it on its blacklist or remove it altogether.
The guy with the alligator in his pants never made it to Instagram and neither did the man with Ziploc bags of vodka taped to his thighs. But the supermarket-grade meat slicer someone tried to pack in a carry-on did make a social media appearance (and quickly garnered over 4,100 likes). Though it may not always seem so to followers of the Transportation Security Administration’s wildly popular (and currently unmanaged) Instagram feed, standards apply to what it can post.
The T.S.A. is, after all, a federal agency, one with a multibillion dollar budget and over 57,000 employees and the daunting task of safeguarding the skies. Screeners at airports are considered “essential” employees and are working without pay in the government shutdown — although, according to CNN, “hundreds” are now calling in sick, many for practical reasons (child care, work that pays their bills). 
And challenges for those workers ramp up this time of year when, over a two-week period that starts before Christmas and ends just after New Year’s Day, an estimated 41 million harried travelers shed belts and shoes, grudgingly remove both laptops and liquids from their luggage — and also, not infrequently, fail to recall that they have tucked a loaded pistol, say, or a pet tarantula or some throwing stars in their carry-ons.
“Common sense is not evenly distributed,” the T.S.A. spokesman Michael Bilello said of the air traveling population one recent pre-shutdown morning at the agency’s headquarters in Pentagon City, Va. “Personally I stress out about my Listerine spray, and you have people coming through security with medieval weapons.”
Maces and crossbows may be the least of it, as it happens. Or so it can seem to followers of @tsa, the agency’s hugely popular Instagram account. Devotees of a feed that counts close to one million followers have grown accustomed to a certain level of crazy on the part of the traveling public. They are aware that tales of snakes concealed in computer hard drives, scythes in backpacks, bricks of weed festooned in Christmas wrapping, replica rifle umbrellas and sword canes are more than urban legend. People try carrying stuff like that — and worse — onto airplanes every day.
That they know this is largely attributable to the efforts of a former transit security officer who, from modest beginnings as a volunteer blogger for the agency, went on to create the T.S.A.’s official Instagram account over five years ago. It was back in 2013 that Curtis Robert Burns, widely known as “Blogger Bob,” first began posting smartphone snaps shot by airport personnel — culled from daily reports of contraband seized at 450 airports throughout the country — to the internet.
To the surprise of many in government, the agency’s Instagram account quickly attracted a sizable following among those alternately drawn to and horrified by a steady cascade of images depicting lipstick Tasers, bone knives and replicas of Freddy Krueger’s ghoulish bladed gloves.
Though the prospect of anonymous baddies sneaking bombs onto planes can sometimes seem abstract (if scary), Mr. Burns’s goofy way with a caption tended to import a measure of common sense and humanity to a detested ritual of modern travel. He did this while highlighting the T.S.A.’s serious underlying core mission.
“When we first started it, the reason was to get at why the T.S.A. did what it did,” said Lynn Dean, a former public affairs officer at the agency and who now works for the Federal Emergency Management Agency. “The challenge was that every time you met someone at a barbecue and said you were a T.S.A. person, you’d get lambasted: ‘Why did they take away my toothpaste? I’m in a wheelchair, why did you have to scan me? I’ve got a pin in my hip.’”
The wryly informative captions Mr. Burns appended to his posts — along with the hashtags that, as Jimmy Kimmel once noted, Mr. Burns deployed more liberally than a teenage girl — helped put a face to an abstract arm of federal government, a division of the Department of Homeland Security formed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
“Bob had this firsthand knowledge of dealing with the good, the bad and the obnoxious aspects of the world coming through the checkpoints,” said Mr. Bilello, the T.S.A. spokesman. “He used dad humor to put the mission across.”
In April 2018, the T.S.A. won its first Webby award, for internet excellence in the categories of Corporate Communications in Social, the aptly titled Weird in Social, as well as a category called People’s Voice for Weird. Lofting and giving a good shake to an award that looked remarkably like a truck spring, Mr. Burns pronounced his Webby “carry-on approved.”
And then in October, at the age of 48, Mr. Burns died unexpectedly of a bacterial infection. He left behind a wife, two daughters and a government agency with no clear blueprint for replicating the jaunty social media presence Mr. Burns devised. 
The agency has not yet posted the listing, but it will appear soon on USAJobs, the official federal government employment website. “It’s a very hard government job to post for,” said James O. Gregory, a public affairs officer at the T.S.A. “The task is to educate passengers and stop bad people. But you’ve got to do it in such a way that it’s interesting.” Humor has proved the best format for that. 
And Mr. Burns had that to spare, no matter the offending object. In a video of his annual list of the top ten most bizarre things people tried to carry onto planes in 2017, he characterized one jagged gizmo found at Honolulu’s international airport as “Satan’s pizza cutter.” (Another, a “grenade art thing” snagged by an X-ray machine in Milwaukee, was so strange, Mr. Burns was left to shake his head in disbelief.)
“There’s no shortage of stories,” said Ms. Dean, invoking the tale of the alligator in a passenger’s pants. Its head had been taped beneath one trouser leg; its tail, fastened down the other. The alligator’s torso was pressed against the groin. The New York bound passenger might even have made it through the checkpoint at Puerto Rico’s international airport had it not been for a sharp-eyed T.S.A. officer.
“As the passenger was approaching, the officer saw something rise in his trousers,” Ms. Dean said. “Maybe they’d tried to give it a little ether and it woke up, but the officer spotted it and said, ‘Sir, your pants should not be moving in your midleg.’”
That particular tale, first reported in a T.S.A. newsletter, never quite made it to Instagram, mostly for reasons of delicacy. “That’s what feels so irreplaceable about Bob,” Ms. Dean said. “You are trying to amuse people and inform passengers while humanizing officers working at airports, whom everyone hates and who’ve probably said, ‘Please take all your liquids out of your bags,’ about four million times.”
You are trying, Ms. Dean said, somehow to explain for the benefit of the nearly three million people who shuffled along purgatorial lines at airports daily this season why T.S.A. officers are obliged to screen those in wheelchairs, or why it is necessary to X-ray a bride’s precious wedding dress, and also why, if you insist on traveling with sex toys in your carry-on, you should make sure to remove the batteries first.
“It actually happened that someone’s vibrator went off in their bag,” Ms. Dean said. “And a vibrating suitcase is definitely going to trigger an alarm.”
DUBAI — Saudi Arabia welcomes the U.S. decision to designate Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a foreign terrorist organization, Saudi state media said on Tuesday.
Saudi Arabia, led by a Sunni Muslim royal family, has accused Shi'ite Muslim Iran of interfering in its and other Middle Eastern countries' internal affairs. Iran and Saudi Arabia have been fighting proxy wars for years, backing opposing sides in conflicts in Syria and Yemen.
"The U.S. decision translates the Kingdom's repeated demands to the international community of the necessity of confronting terrorism supported by Iran," SPA news agency said, citing a foreign ministry source. 
 (Writing by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Raissa Kasolowsky)
As the television reports a terrorist attack on the continent, Raza Shar, the British-born son of Pakistani immigrants, prepares to go out for a night on the town in London. “Anyone picks on you, don’t be brave,” his father admonishes him. “Tell him you’re a Hindu.” Raza rolls his eyes, nods and recites, “Don’t freak, I’m a Sikh.”
That scene, early in the BBC mini-series “Informer” (coming to Amazon Prime Video on Friday), indicates that you’re not watching a typical TV drama about the fight against terrorism. For one thing, Raza, who’s winningly played by Nabhaan Rizwan in his screen debut, is not just the center of the story but its sharpest, wittiest and most appealing character. The cops played by Paddy Considine and Bel Powley, the more established stars of the six-episode series, look dull and washed out by comparison.
That contrast runs through the show, in ways that are a welcome change from the genre’s frequent characteristics: piousness, fear mongering, lazy stereotyping. Raza’s family (his mother is played by the vibrant Sunetra Sarker from the high-school dramedy “Ackley Bridge”) and the immigrants’ world of dodgy housing projects and rundown commercial strips radiate warmth and healthy, informed skepticism. In this story, they’re the ones whose way of life is under threat.
“Informer” was created and written by Rory Haines and Sohrab Noshirvani, who reportedly met in a screenwriting class at Columbia University. They’ve sold several feature scripts (one was included on the Black List of hot unproduced screenplays), but this is their first project to make it to the screen in 10 years of working together.
And they got it about half right. As refreshing a character as Raza is, and as crackling as the scenes in his milieu can be, there’s another chunk of the story — the cop chunk — that appears to have been beyond Haines and Noshirvani. For every cliché and leaden bit of dialogue they kept out of the story of immigrant life, they tossed one into the story of undercover police work and its toll on those who are condemned to do it.
That makes “Informer” an up-and-down experience as the complicated, somewhat disjointed story barrels along. Considine, a fine actor in a dour role, plays Gabe Waters, a former undercover cop who now seeks out, trains and handles informants in the South Asian community. Powley plays his new partner, Holly Morten, who’s an equally overworked type, the female cop whose talent is matched by awkwardness and antisocial tendencies.
Under pressure to find a terrorist leader thought to be in London, Gabe and Holly stumble on Raza when he spends a night in a holding cell, and pressure him into becoming an informant. He’s appalled at the thought of snitching. But the twist is that his natural charm and quick wits make him good at it, and as he gets deeper into the job during the show’s middle episodes, he begins to take pride in it.
Just about everything having to do with Raza, as he insinuates himself with Albanian gangsters and disaffected Muslims, is fun to watch, particularly the scenes pairing Rizwan with Roger Jean Nsengiyumva as Dadir, another son of the projects who isn’t quite as polished as Raza. Not as good but still entertaining is the interplay between Rizwan and Considine, as Gabe instructs Raza in the undercover arts.
That leaves the time-consuming but not particularly significant subplots about Gabe’s past undercover work among neo-Nazis (shades of the F.B.I. agent Stan Beeman in “The Americans”) and the problems Gabe’s workload causes in his marriage (Jessica Raine plays his wife). Those are the times for checking email.
Despite its lighter than usual touch, “Informer” is not a happy story — flash-forwards to an inquest following a mass shooting give that away from the start. It’s an equal-opportunity dispenser of grief, with nearly everyone ending up a victim in one way or another.
But when Rizwan is on screen, it has a bounce, an engaging lightness. Gracefully avoiding the handshake of a female teacher, casting a skeptical eye on Londoners of every description, Raza is always good company.
NEW YORK — Yemeni-Americans are criticizing the New York Post over its front page last week that featured a photograph of the burning World Trade Center and a quote from Democratic Muslim Rep. Ilhan Omar that some say was dismissive of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
On Sunday, The New York Times reports the Yemeni American Merchant Association announced a formal boycott of the tabloid after Yemini bodega owners in New York had earlier agreed stop selling the newspaper.
Last week's front page featured a quote that came from a recent speech the Minnesota Democrat gave to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, in which she described the 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center as "some people did something."
"We support free speech, but we will not accept the incitement of violence against Muslims," said Debbi Almontaser, the secretary of the board of directors for the merchants.
"What the New York Post is doing is endangering the lives of American Muslims and people of color," Almontaser said.
The merchants are demanding that the newspaper apologize to Omar and to the Muslim-American community in New York.
A spokeswoman for News Corporation, the parent company of the New York Post, declined to comment.
Also on Sunday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she has taken steps to ensure the safety of Omar after President Donald Trump's retweet of a video that purports to show the congresswoman making the remark along with news footing of the hijacked airplanes hitting the Twin Towers. Trump captioned his tweet with: "WE WILL NEVER FORGET!"
Neither Trump's tweet nor the video included Omar's full quote or the context of her comments, which were about Muslims feeling that their civil liberties had eroded after the attacks.
Pelosi was among Democrats who had criticized Trump over the tweet, with some accusing him of trying to incite violence against the Muslim lawmaker. An upstate New York man recently was charged with making death threats against her.
___
Information from: The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com
HONG KONG — Erik Prince, a former member of the Navy SEALs best known as the founder of the security contractor formerly known as Blackwater, has made it clear that he considers China a priority. He teamed up with one of China’s biggest conglomerates and set up a company that would help Chinese companies overseas.
But Mr. Prince scrambled on Friday to distance himself from the latest announcement: that his company, Frontier Services Group, had struck a deal to build a training camp in the northwestern Chinese region of Xinjiang, where hundreds of thousands of Muslims have been detained in indoctrination camps that have drawn condemnation in Washington and abroad.
Frontier Services Group said in January that it had reached an agreement with officials and an industrial park in Tumxuk, a city in western Xinjiang, to build a training facility there. The announcement provided few details about what kind of training would take place there, though the company cast the project as a move to help upgrade the city through tourism and infrastructure projects.
Chinese media later reported that FSG would invest about $600,000 into the camp and train about 8,000 people a year.
But on Friday, in a statement provided by a spokesman, Mr. Prince said he had “no knowledge or involvement whatsoever” of what he called a “preliminary memorandum.”
Mr. Prince added, “Any potential investment of this nature would require the knowledge and input of each FSG board member and a formal board resolution.”
By Friday, the statement announcing the deal had been removed from the FSG website.
Mr. Prince, who is the brother of the United States education secretary, Betsy DeVos, has long courted controversy, most recently when he laid out a plan for President Trump to privatize the war in Afghanistan. Blackwater, a United States military contractor in two Asian conflicts, became a symbol of unchecked American power in the Iraq war after its employees killed 17 unarmed civilians in Baghdad in 2007.
Frontier Services Group has expressed interest in western China before. Two years ago, it said it would set up an office in Xinjiang, where the Chinese authorities have taken an increasingly hard line on the local population, citing concerns about terrorism. Xinjiang is home to a largely Muslim ethnic minority group called Uighurs.
Since then, a fuller, more disturbing picture has emerged.
Officials in Xinjiang have rounded up ethnic Uighurs and other Muslim minority groups in huge numbers, putting them into re-education camps where they are subjected to a severe indoctrination program to remove any devotion to Islam and make them obedient to the Chinese Communist Party. Experts, human rights groups, and officials in the United States and elsewhere estimate hundreds of thousands of people have been caught up in the campaign, part of an expansive crackdown that Beijing has put in place in the name of fighting extremism and separatism.
“Xinjiang is a region where we have documented severe human rights abuses both by the police and ordinary officials,” said Maya Wang, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. “Anything that would involve training government officials involved in this repression would be contributing to human rights abuses.”
United States officials have taken notice. Lawmakers have introduced bipartisan bills that urge the Trump administration to punish Chinese officials and to prevent sales of some American equipment to some Chinese state agencies. Officials at the White House and in the State and Treasury Departments have been discussing whether to impose economic sanctions on Chinese officials who oversee the system of repression in Xinjiang.
Mr. Prince made a name for himself as the founder of Blackwater, a private military contractor that did business in Iraq. After Blackwater employees were held responsible for civilian deaths in Baghdad, Mr. Prince sold the company and set up FSG, turning his sights to the growing demand from Chinese companies moving into countries and regions with ethnic strife.
FSG, which is listed in Hong Kong, has unabashedly courted Chinese officialdom. Citic Group, one of China’s biggest state-owned conglomerates, owns a quarter of FSG’s stock. A security and logistics company, FSG has tied itself to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, a major campaign by President Xi Jinping to develop geopolitical ties by building bridges, trains and ports through Asia. China considers Xinjiang, which borders Kazakhstan and several other Central Asian countries, a gateway to a strategically important region.
Tumxuk lies between Kashgar and Aksu, larger settlements that have been a focus of the Chinese government’s drive to stifle antigovernment sentiment. The city comes under the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, an organization run along military lines and founded in the 1950s to bring security, development and Han Chinese settlers — members of China’s largest ethnic group — to the region. Even now, the corps acts as a kind of parallel administration in Xinjiang, holding vast areas of land and operating its own schools, courts and other institutions.
But Tumxuk has also been drawn into the regionwide drive to transform Uighur society through indoctrination camps.
The government says the camps wean Uighurs and other Muslim minorities from religious extremism, while teaching them Chinese language and job skills. But former inmates have described harsh, even brutal treatment, and United Nations human rights committees and experts have condemned the camps for holding people in the camps without legal appeal.
Tumxuk has more than 160,000 inhabitants, nearly two-thirds of them Uighur, according to official population estimates, and government reports and records show that the city has built at least one camp, as well as other specialized schools, to “deradicalize” minority residents.
Uighurs are nearly all Sunni Muslim. In the previous decade some of them embraced more conservative strains of Islam, and Xinjiang experienced bursts of violence directed at government targets and Han Chinese people. The Chinese government said the violence was inspired and orchestrated by terrorists seeking an independent Uighur homeland, but many experts outside the country said the attacks often appeared to be poorly organized local efforts.
In 2017, a unit of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps in Tumxuk issued a tender notice inviting bids for building work on a “legal education and training center” — a phrase sometimes used for the indoctrination camps. The work required included installing video surveillance equipment and renovating dormitories and a canteen for the inmates. In 2017, Tumxuk also hosted a meeting of Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps officials to discuss the growing indoctrination drive, according to a corps report at the time.
The FSG deal would have put the company in direct business with Tumxuk officials. A news release that has since been removed from the FSG website included a photograph of local officials signing the memorandum. One was Li Zhenguo, the Communist Party secretary for Tumxuk, who recently warned about the rise of terrorism in the region.
According to a statement on the local government website on Friday, Mr. Li recently implored local officials to “always be on alert in the war against separatism and terrorism.”
The United Nations-backed government of Libya sought on Saturday to reassure its Western supporters by distancing itself from terrorists and extremists.
Some fighters with extremist ties or who have been targeted by United Nations sanctions have said this week that they were joining the Libyan government’s fight against an attack by a militia leader.
The militia leader, Gen. Khalifa Hifter, 75, has long portrayed himself as commanding a fight against terrorism as he has tried to establish himself as a new military ruler of Libya. He has promised an end to the mayhem of warring factions and fiefdoms that has followed the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi during the Arab Spring uprising of 2011.
But his critics say his often indiscriminate attacks have only ended up driving more mainstream opponents into alliances of desperation with militants and extremists.
That debate has now taken on new urgency because over the last nine days, General Hifter, who loosely controls much of eastern Libya, has begun a new attempt to take over the headquarters of the United Nations-backed government in the capital, Tripoli.
The government said Saturday it “strongly denies the allegations that among our ranks there are fighters who belong to terrorist organizations.”
Its main defenders have been powerful militias based in the nearby cities of Zintan and Misrata that led the fight to oust Colonel Qaddafi and are not considered extremists. Militias from Misrata had previously played the leading role in defeating the militants of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, after they had established a Libyan base.
But several fighters with extremist ties or under United Nations sanctions have also said they are joining the battle against General Hifter.
Among them is the warlord Salah Badi, who has previously allied with Islamist extremists and who is under United Nations sanctions for undermining stability. Also joining the fray is Brigade Defend Benghazi, which largely absorbed an earlier coalition that included a militia under United Nations sanctions as a terrorist organization.
The militia it included was Ansar al-Shariah, whose fighters played a major role in the attack on a United States diplomatic compound that killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens in 2012.
Ziad Bellam, a brigade leader who also fought against General Hifter in Benghazi, said in an online video last week that he was returning to the battle in Tripoli to avenge a deceased leader of Ansar al-Shariah and other comrades considered extremists.
Western governments have almost universally condemned General Hifter’s advance on the capital, which upended United Nations efforts to negotiate a solution to the Libyan fighting.
But the European Union said Thursday that its members “express their concern at the involvement of terrorist and criminal elements in the fighting, including individuals listed by the U.N. Security Council.”
The New York Times also reported on Friday about extremists and others under United Nations sanctions rushing into the fight against General Hifter.
In an apparent response to that report and the European Union, the government in Tripoli said Saturday that it “was and still is fighting terrorism and hunting down its remnants.”
The government argued on Saturday that it was General Hifter’s attack that had “opened the road to the reactivation of the terrorist sleeper cells that are waiting for the opportunity.”
BOGOTÁ, Colombia — The suspect in a car bombing that left 21 people dead on Thursday in Bogotá, the capital,was a member of the country’s largest remaining guerrilla group, the defense ministry said Friday.
José Aldemar Rojas Rodríguez, the assailant who was also killed in the attack, was a member of the National Liberation Army, a Marxist rebel group known as the ELN, said Guillermo Botero, the Colombian defense minister.
The group did not claim responsibility for the bombing, but it has stepped up attacks against the government since its rival, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or the FARC, signed a peace deal with the government in 2016.
Thursday’s attack was the first car bombing in Bogotá in years, a gruesome reminder of a time when drug lords and rebel groups ravaged the capital’s streets with car bombs, killing hundreds of civilians and members of the security forces. Since the signing of the peace accords, the Colombian government has said it turned the page on that violent era.
[Read our latest update on the suspect arrested for the Bogota, Colombia bombing.]
Scenes of the carnage tell a different story. Cellphone videos shared with The New York Times on Friday and filmed by someone who was at the scene showed a burning vehicle with a dismembered torso in blue pants sprawled in front of the flames. The camera also captured images of a human foot and what appeared to be a severed head. Rescue workers struggled to carry survivors out on stretchers.
The attack against security forces in Colombia’s center of power marked an escalation of hostilities with the ELN, which in the last year has bombed police stations, attacked oil pipelines and kidnapped soldiers, police officers and military contractors. And it will almost certainly derail negotiations with the group, which says it is seeking a similar peace deal as the FARC, said Jairo Libreros, a professor at Externado University in Bogotá and a security analyst who tracks the group.
“This closes the window and ends all chance in the short term of peace talks,” Mr. Libreros said. “Citizens will not tolerate peace negotiations at a time of attacks.”
Iván Duque, Colombia’s president, who had been away from the capital, called the bombing a “miserable terrorist act” and said that he was returning to direct the investigation. “All Colombians reject terrorism and are united to confront it,” he said on Twitter.
The car had been laden with about 175 pounds of pentolite, a powerful explosive, which went off minutes after a promotion ceremony for police officers, according to the office of the Colombian attorney general.
“This kind of thing has an impact,” said Jenifer Beltrán, 36, a mother of two who was home when she heard the explosion. “It makes you think that once again the country is headed toward that memory of those years when there were so many car bombs and attacks everywhere.”
By midday Thursday, relatives of students of the Santander General School had gathered by the building to search for their loved ones.
Among them was Leonor Pardo, a saleswoman whose 21-year-old son had been studying at the academy and had just been found unharmed.
“We heard an explosion — it was horrible because the first thing I thought of was my son,” said Ms. Pardo, who was near the police academy at the time. “I fainted.”
Even before Mr. Botero spoke on Friday, local news reports speculated that the bombing may have been the work of Colombia’s remaining guerrilla fighters, many of whom remain at large.
Last January, guerrilla fighters of the National Liberation Army killed five police officers and wounded more than 40 in the bombing of a police station in the port city of Barranquilla.
The group also kidnapped four soldiers, three police officers and two military contractors last year in a bid to pressure the government to enter into peace talks. The hostages were released, but the government refused to negotiate.
The attack was a blow to Mr. Duque, whose approval ratings as president have fallen in recent months, particularly on issues of security.
“I think this comes at a critical juncture for Duque’s early government,” said Arlene B. Tickner, a political scientist at Bogotá’s Del Rosario University who writes a column in El Espectador, a Colombia newspaper. “He’s not high in the polls, he’s subject to ridicule in some circles and under tremendous pressure on security.”
Under pressure from his own right-wing Democratic Center party, Mr. Duque recently replaced the heads of the national police and armed forces with hard-liners and promoted other top military officials who had been linked to extrajudicial killings, according to Human Rights Watch.
“The decision to appoint officers linked by credible evidence to serious abuses conveys the toxic message to the troops that respect for human rights is not necessary for career success,” said José Miguel Vivanco, the head of Human Rights Watch’s Americas division.
Among the witnesses on Thursday was Berta Poussaint, 62, who sells military uniforms near the school. Rather than using this as a call for a crackdown, she said, the authorities should try to negotiate with guerrilla groups.
“The president needs to push for peace,” said Ms. Poussaint.
NAIROBI, Kenya — Two Cuban doctors were abducted near Kenya’s border with Somalia on Friday, in a bold attack that left one police officer dead and that officials say was probably linked to the Shabab militant group.
The abduction took place early Friday when the doctors were on their way to work. They left their residence and were traveling to Mandera County Referral Hospital, less than two miles from the border, in a government vehicle with two police officers escorting them, when two vehicles boxed them in, the police said.
One police officer was shot and killed, and the attackers spirited the doctors across the border in their own vehicle. The car was later recovered, along with a driver, who was taken in for questioning, the police said.
A spokesman for the police, Charles Owino, said the attackers might be linked to the Shabab militant group, an Al Qaeda affiliate, but he left open the possibility that it could be another group.
While the Kenyan authorities did not release the names of the doctors, Cuba’s Ministry of Public Health identified them as Assel Herrera Correa, a general practitioner from the province of Las Tunas, and Landy Rodríguez Hernández, a surgeon from Villa Clara.
In a report that aired on Kenya’s Citizen TV last July, the doctors said they were concerned when they first learned of their posting to the hospital in Mandera.
“My reaction was bad when I checked the internet,” Dr. Rodríguez said in the interview. He said his search showed that the Shabab had carried out attacks in the area. Dr. Herrera told the network that he had also worked in Brazil and Venezuela in “very hard conditions.”
Doctors are particularly needed in the region because local health workers have fled in fear of Shabab attacks. Dr. Herrera told the television network that he saw around 20 patients a day, while Dr. Rodríguez performed 10 surgeries daily.
The two were part of a group of about 100 Cuban doctors deployed to Kenya in June 2018, according to the country’s Ministry of Health, to help the country put a universal health coverage program in place.
For decades, Cuba has sent doctors to countries around the world as part of a government-sponsored plan to provide training and assistance.
Some 400,000 health care workers have been sent on medical missions in 164 nations in the past five decades, according to the Cuban government. They have worked to combat the Ebola virus in Africa and cholera in Haiti, as well as having responded to natural disasters and other epidemics.
The abduction comes in the wake of the State Department on Tuesday issuing an advisory urging Americans not to travel to Kenya’s coastal areas and regions on the Somalia border because of the threat of terrorism.
Kenyan officials have condemned the abduction and vowed to find the doctors.
Hillary Mutyambai, Kenya’s newly appointed head of police, said that the country was working closely with the government of Somalia to ensure the doctors were returned safely.
The Shabab claimed responsibility for a major attack on the DusitD2 hotel and office complex in Nairobi in January that left 21 people dead, and it regularly carries out attacks in Somalia.
The Trump administration stepped up airstrikes against the group this year, and the United States estimates 5,000 to 7,000 Shabab fighters are active in Somalia. The African Union Mission in Somalia, or Amisom, has also been actively fighting the militant group in Somalia since early 2007.
Last week, federal agents in Maryland arrested a United States Coast Guard officer and said he was plotting to assassinate Democratic members of Congress, prominent television journalists and others. The officer, Lt. Christopher Hasson, apparently inspired by a right-wing Norwegian terrorist who slaughtered 77 people in 2011, stockpiled firearms and ammunition and researched locations around Washington to launch his attacks, according to investigators. Fortunately, the F.B.I. arrested him before he could act.
This frightening case is just one of several recent reminders that white supremacy and far-right extremism are among the greatest domestic-security threats facing the United States.
Regrettably, over the past 25 years, law enforcement, at both the federal and state levels, has been slow to respond. This is in part because of the limited number of enforcement tools available to prosecutors. But there are steps that can be taken to help the police and prosecutors address this growing threat — including, on the federal level, a domestic terrorism law.
In 2017, hate crimes, generally defined as criminal acts motivated by the victim’s race, ethnicity, religion, or gender, increased by about 17 percent nationally, to 7,175 from 6,121 (the number of police agencies reporting crimes also rose, by about 6 percent); in my state, Virginia, they were up by nearly 50 percent, to 202 from 137.
Killings committed by individuals and groups associated with far-right extremist groups have risen significantly. Seventy-one percent of the 387 “extremist related fatalities in the United States” from 2008 to 2017 were committed by members of far-right and white-supremacist groups, according the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism. Islamic extremists were responsible for 26 percent.
The rising scourge of domestic hate has been underscored by particularly heinous acts in the past few years. In 2015, an avowed white supremacist murdered nine black congregants at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C. Last year in Kentucky, a white man with a history of making racist remarks was charged with shooting and killing two African-Americans in their 60s at a grocery store after trying to enter a nearby black church. Several months ago, an assailant shouting anti-Semitic slurs stormed the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh with a semiautomatic rifle and murdered 11 people.
Virginia, too, has experienced extremist violence. In August 2017, several hundred people — mainly young white men heavily influenced by white-nationalist propaganda — converged on Charlottesville, ostensibly to protest the possible removal of Confederate monuments from public parks. Among other odious acts, these “Unite the Right” protesters marched with lighted torches on the campus of the University of Virginia. They chanted “Jews will not replace us!” before attacking a small group of students and counterprotesters at the base of a statue of Thomas Jefferson. 
The following day, some of these Unite the Right enthusiasts attacked and injured counterprotesters in Charlottesville. Their violence culminated when a white supremacist from Ohio drove his car into a crowd of people, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring about 30 others.
In 2009, Congress took an important step in arming federal investigators to deal with hate crimes by passing the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr., Hate Crimes Prevention Act. This law makes it possible to prosecute as hate crimes violent acts committed against victims because of their race, color, national origin, religion, gender, gender identity or disability. The law provides stringent maximum penalties, including life imprisonment, if someone is killed during a hate crime.
But the hate crime law has its limitations. First, it requires proof that an individual acted because of a specific proscribed animus enumerated in the statute. That means investigators must uncover concrete evidence that the defendant was primarily motivated by, for example, racist or anti-Semitic views. Although this evidence exists in many hate crimes, it proves elusive in others.
Second, because it is a federal statute, prosecutors must prove a “jurisdictional” element, such as travel by the defendant across state lines. For those hate crimes that do not involve interstate travel or communication, the law can’t be invoked.
Given these limitations, elected officials should consider providing law enforcement with additional tools. At the federal level, this could include a domestic-terrorism statute that would allow for the terrorism prosecution of people who commit acts of violence, threats and other criminal activities aimed at intimidating or coercing civilians.
State officials can update and strengthen existing hate-crime laws, many of which do not include protections for some of the categories of people listed in the federal hate crimes law. Although many states have expanded these protections, the Indiana State Senate this week moved to weaken a proposed hate crime bill. In addition, states can authorize localities to place reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions on demonstrations that will likely result in widespread violence and other criminal activity, like the rally in Charlottesville.
At both the federal and state levels, immediate steps are required to curtail the alarming rise of hate crimes and extremist violence in this country.
DUBAI — Bahrain's Foreign Ministry on Monday welcomed the U.S. decision to designate Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a foreign terrorist organization.
Bahrain, led by a Sunni Muslim royal family, has accused Shi'ite Muslim Iran of supporting Shi'ite anti-government groups on its territory. Tehran denies the charges.
 (Writing by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Alison Williams)
To the Editor:
Re “They Joined ISIS. Bring Them Home” (Op-Ed, March 5):
Bryant Neal Viñas, in describing his rehabilitation, makes fighting for ISIS against American forces sound like some kind of civil offense. In truth it is closer to treason. He puts his descriptions of fighters like himself in quotes (“terrorists”) as if they were really something else. 
If Mr. Viñas does not have “blood on [his] hands,” has accepted his guilt and has found a “life after terrorism” in the United States, then good for him. I am not, however, glad that he is home.
Richard W. PoetonBennington, Vt.
To the Editor:
As a counterterrorism analyst at the New York Police Department, I spent my days investigating individuals who were considering acts of terrorism. Having worked to enforce our laws, I, like Bryant Neal Viñas, support letting “the American legal system do its work.” Just as our perceptions of terrorists tend to lack nuance, so do our perceptions of terrorist acts. Not all terrorists are Osama bin Laden, and not all actions are beheadings.
Once someone has served time, we should do what we can to help him or her reintegrate into society. We should judge people on their actions, but allow for them to change.
Steve HeitkampLondon
To the Editor:
Bryant Neal Viñas writes that the United States should take back “those Western foreign fighters who do not have ‘blood on their hands’ — didn’t kill any coalition forces overseas — and are willing to admit they made mistakes.” This definition of ISIS’s crimes erases women’s participation in this conflict as both victims and victimizers. 
By focusing on combat with coalition forces, Mr. Viñas conveniently ignores the kidnapping, rape, torture and enslavement of Iraqi and Syrian women. He also doesn’t acknowledge that both willingly and by force, thousands of women mobilized for ISIS. 
Most of these women will not meet the international legal threshold of “foreign fighter,” but they were essential to ISIS’s ideological and operational missions. The women of ISIS served as wives and mothers, yes, but also as propagandists, members of a brutal morality police, slave owners and, toward the end, even combatants. 
Mr. Viñas may have atoned for his crimes, but he should not minimize the crimes of others, especially women.
Jessica Trisko DardenWashingtonThe writer, co-author of “Insurgent Women: Female Combatants in Civil Wars,” is an assistant professor at American University’s School of International Service and a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
To the Editor:
The debate over whether Western countries should allow foreign fighters and the children and wives of ISIS combatants to return to their homelands acknowledges the threat they could pose to Western citizens upon return. But we should not ignore the precedent that letting them return sets for those considering joining such groups.
Having the option to leave a terrorist organization and go home expedites the decision to go in the first place. The prospect of never again being able to return to one’s family or homeland, and having to spend the remainder of one’s life in the deserts of Syria, might be the final straw preventing potential recruits from making that fateful decision.
Alexa SantryWashington
ANKARA, Turkey — The U.S. decision to designate Iran's Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization is a dangerous development that could lead to chaos, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Wednesday.
Speaking at a joint news conference with Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Turkish minister also said that U.S. sanctions were harming the people of Iran.
The United States re-imposed sanctions on Iran, including on its energy sector, last November, after President Donald Trump pulled out of the landmark 2015 Iran nuclear deal.
Trump and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the designation against the Revolutionary Guard with great fanfare last week.
"When we start adding other countries' armies to terror lists, then serious cracks will occur in the system of international law," Cavusoglu said. "Trust in the global system will decline and total chaos will ensue."
"Our conscience does not accept that the brotherly Iranian people be punished," Cavusoglu said of U.S. sanctions on Iran. "Such steps put regional stability, peace, calm and economic development under risk."
Zarif arrived in Turkey after visiting Syria where he met President Bashar Assad. Russia, Iran and Turkey, which back rival groups in Syria's conflict, have been sponsoring talks in Kazakhstan to try to end the war.
Zarif said he would tell Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan about his talks with Assad, adding that Iran wants to help Turkey and Syria establish "good relations."
The U.S. designation — the first-ever for an entire division of another government — adds another layer of sanctions to the powerful paramilitary Iranian force and makes it a crime under U.S. jurisdiction to provide it with material support.
QUETTA, Pakistan — A suicide bomber targeted an open-air market in the southwestern Pakistani city of Quetta on Friday, killing at least 20 people and wounding dozens of others, police and hospital officials said.
Shortly after the bombing, struck near a Shiite residential area, dozens of angry Shiite youths rallied in Quetta, demanding more security from the authorities and the arrest of those behind the attacks.
They also denounced the violence by Sunni extremists who have killed hundreds in similar attacks over the past years in Baluchistan province, where Quetta is the capital.
"It seems people from the (Shiite) Hazara community were the target," said senior police chief Abdur Razzaq Cheema, adding that some of the victims were in critical condition.
Mir Ziaullah Langau, the provincial home minister, said the suicide bomber had walked up to the marketplace and killed both Shiites and Sunnis.
No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, which took place in the Hazarganji neighborhood, but Sunni militant groups have claimed similar bombings in the past against Shiites, whom they view as apostates deserving of death.
Cheema, the police chief said at least eight Shiites were among the dead, as well as a paramilitary soldier and seven other people. Four paramilitary troops, who were guarding the open-air fruit and vegetable market, were among the wounded.
Local TV footage showed several damaged shops and at least one paramilitary vehicle. A wounded man told reporters from his hospital bed how he had heard a loud explosion before he was struck down.
Qadir Nayil, a leader of the Hazara community, asked the government to provide better protection for the Shiites.
"Once again our people were the target and once again we will have to bury our dear ones," he said. "We demand more security from the government and all those involved in today's act of terrorism should be found and punished."
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and President Arif Alvi issued statements condemning the attack and adding that it would not weaken "the resolve of the nation in the fight against terrorism."
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed shock at the Quetta attack and strongly condemned "this cowardly act," U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said. "The United Nations expresses its fully solidarity with the Government of Pakistan in its fight against terrorism and violent extremism," Dujarric said.
Jam Kamal Khan, the chief minister of Baluchistan province, also condemned the attack, saying "the enemy of humanity" is to blame.
Hours after the attack in Quetta, a roadside bomb exploded outside a shop in the southwestern border town of Chama, killing one person and wounding 10 others, police and hospitals officials said.
Several militant groups operate in Baluchistan, which is also the scene of a low-level insurgency by separatists demanding more autonomy and a greater share in the region's natural resources such as gas and oil.
___
Associated Press writer Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed
The government shutdown and partisan wrangling over a wall at the southern border have produced high political drama in Washington, where President Trump has sought to portray the impasse as a national emergency.
And as the shutdown reached a record 22nd day on Saturday, Americans following local and national media coverage would be forgiven for thinking they had fallen into a parallel universe — with the episode being presented both as a moment of crisis and hardship, and a curiosity that mostly registered as a politically motivated annoyance.
Early in the week, the historically conservative Cincinnati Enquirer labeled the paralysis a “buzzkill,” warning readers that the lag in government approval of new beer labels could reduce the output from local breweries. Several days later it reported on 40 Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky government employees protesting outside a local I.R.S. processing center, focusing on the financial difficulties furloughed employees face, like day care expenses and rent payments.
Polls show that more Americans blame the president for the shutdown than blame congressional Democrats. But there is a very stark partisan divide, with a large majority of Republicans supporting Mr. Trump.
And while conservative media has been mostly supportive of the president, its coverage has sometimes diverged from Mr. Trump’s tone of crisis.
In Beaumont, Tex., a moderate city in a red district near Houston, the Beaumont Enterprise editorial board welcomed Mr. Trump’s visit to the border on Thursday but urged both sides to compromise.
“It doesn’t matter that Trump has done more to inflame this standoff than Democrats,” the paper wrote. “The goal must be a solution, not a continuation of this costly governmental stalemate.”
The Dallas Morning News published an editorial this week that took particular aim at Mr. Trump for waging a potentially unwinnable fight that focuses on crime, questioned his “moral credibility” and urged him to offer a deal that protects immigrant children in exchange for the wall he wants.
But Robert Pratt, a popular conservative radio talk-show host in Lubbock, and a former head of the county Republican Party, recently criticized the news media for focusing on government workers affected by the shutdown.
“The temporary plight of government workers is treated as a national crisis while the perpetual plight of millions more who take huge risks, work long hours to create jobs, and build and maintain the economy rarely gets a mention,” he wrote.
There has even been some conflicting commentary in the Fox News firmament.
Brian Kilmeade, a co-host of the reliably pro-Trump “Fox & Friends,” said on Thursday’s program that the declaration of a national emergency to fund a wall, which the president is considering, “would just be a disaster in the big picture, and just show us being inept and unable to govern around the world.”
The host went on to suggest that future presidents could use a similar tactic for purposes that may be less aligned with the “Fox & Friends” worldview. “It would just set a terrible precedent,” Mr. Kilmeade said, as his co-hosts listened silently. “The next president, if it is a liberal president, will say a state of emergency will be climate change.”
Mr. Kilmeade’s break from Trump orthodoxy followed a tough exchange last weekend between the “Fox News Sunday” moderator Chris Wallace and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.
The harsh questioning of Ms. Sanders led to the president dropping one of his key talking points — an inaccurate claim that thousands of terrorists were crossing the border — in favor of a wall.
Many of Fox News’s commentators, however, have been supportive of the president. In an online column on Wednesday titled “Trump’s plea for a wall is more than about stats — it’s about saving lives,” Sean Hannity echoed many of the president’s arguments from his Oval Office speech on Tuesday, citing the same statistics about crime and opioid deaths. “This is a national emergency,’’ Mr. Hannity wrote, conveying Mr. Trump’s dark tone. “The situation is now dire.”
Another columnist, Charlie Kirk, wrote that, politically, Mr. Trump had trapped Democrats, “essentially forcing them to say: We support border security and we support reopening the entire federal government, but we don’t support border security enough to take action to reopen the entire federal government.”
The belief that Democrats are to blame for the shutdown has been mostly consistent across right-wing media. In an interview that the conservative Sinclair Broadcast Group required all of its stations to run, Senator Mike Braun, Republican of Indiana, told the political analyst Boris Epshteyn — a former top aide to Mr. Trump — that the shutdown was a test of whether Democrats wanted to “do anything other than the status quo.”
“Here’s the bottom line,” Mr. Epshteyn said at the end of the segment, which aired across the country this week. “It is highly irresponsible for congressional Democrats to let their disdain for the president and their insistence on playing partisan politics stand in the way of securing our country. Let’s hope the Democrats come to the table soon and end this partial government shutdown.”
Immediately after Mr. Trump’s Oval Office speech on Tuesday, in response to a caller on WNIR in Akron, Ohio, the conservative radio personality Jim Isabella said the president had successfully gotten Congress’s top two Democrats — Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer — to “take a cheap shot at him.”
“He was the adult in the room tonight,” Mr. Isabella said.
Rush Limbaugh, the right-wing talk radio host, praised Mr. Trump for refusing to give ground.
“We have a president keeping promises left and right,” Mr. Limbaugh said on Wednesday. “And isn’t it interesting to see how trivial Washington thinks that is?”
But in some corners of conservative media, the sentiment supporting the president was more nuanced.
Raheem Kassam, a fellow at the conservative Claremont Institute and a columnist for The Daily Caller, wrote on Tuesday that the shutdown was “of course being leveraged by the Democrats and the establishment media,” but that it was working in Mr. Trump’s favor. He added that he didn’t think arguments about the shutdown’s impact on government workers would be effective.
“That’s a tough sell to most Americans, who don’t have half the luxuries or benefits of federal employees,” he said. “If Trump can continue looking like a steward of security and humanitarian concerns throughout his visit to the border on Thursday, there’s a very good chance he has the wall in the bag.”
Other outlets called outright for the president to back down. After Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado supported the reopening of the government — the first Republican senator to do so — Colorado Peak Politics, which bills itself as the state’s “conservative bully pulpit,” published an editorial titled “END THE SHUTDOWN.”
David Brody, the chief political correspondent for the Christian Broadcasting Network, which reaches a largely evangelical Christian audience, said he had been focusing not so much on the policy issues as on “the breakdown of civility between Democrats and Republicans.”
“From a Christian perspective, that’s been a big part,” Mr. Brody said in a phone interview.
As the debate raged in many parts of the nation, others remained unperturbed. It seemed at times that the big divide was not over who was right — in conservative circles, many people agreed that it was the president — but over how important it really was.
“People are not as concerned out here about the shutdown and don’t feel affected,” Jim Hoft, founder and editor of The Gateway Pundit, said in a phone interview, referring to the Midwest. That being said, he added that many conservatives in the Midwest felt that Democrats were preventing Mr. Trump from making the country safer, and that most of his readers “support the president on this issue.”
For many Americans, as federal workers missed their first paycheck, the effects became more visceral, and the blame game less important. That was reflected in the Cincinnati Enquirer’s article on the I.R.S. protests this week.
The story quoted a union leader, Debbie Mullikin, saying that some furloughed workers were at risk of homelessness. “Mullikin said she isn’t sure who to blame for the shutdown,” the article said, “but that isn’t the point.”
DUBLIN — The police in Northern Ireland on Friday blamed militants opposed to British rule there for the killing of a young journalist who was covering a night of violent unrest in Londonderry.
“We are treating this as a terrorist incident, and we have launched a murder inquiry,” Mark Hamilton, an assistant chief constable, said of the fatal shooting of the journalist, Lyra McKee, 29.
A deputy chief constable, Stephen Martin, told reporters that the police were searching for several suspects. “There was certainly more than one person involved,” he said, adding: “This was not done to further any cause. This will have achieved nothing other than to plunge a family into grief.”
[Update: 2 men arrested in killing of journalist Lyra McKee.]
Mr. Hamilton said the police were attributing the violence and the killing to the New Irish Republican Army, a militant republican group formed several years ago from the merger of several splinter groups. It is not affiliated in any way with the Provisional Irish Republican Army, which renounced violence in 2005.
Many people in Northern Ireland, primarily Roman Catholics, consider themselves republicans, meaning that they want the region to break away from the United Kingdom and join the Republic of Ireland. But the number who pursue that end through violence is relatively small.
The violence took place in Creggan, a heavily Catholic area of Londonderry — a city that Catholics and republicans generally call Derry — after the police started carrying out searches in the area because of concerns that militant republicans were storing firearms and explosives there in preparation for an attack to commemorate the 1916 rebellion in Dublin known as the Easter Rising.
The searches were followed by a riot in which gasoline bombs were thrown — more than 50, according to the police — and then the attack that killed Ms. McKee. Mr. Hamilton, the assistant chief constable, said she was hit by a gunman firing toward the police.
“We saw unrest last year in the run-up to Easter and this year it’s exactly the same,” said Marisa McGlinchey, an expert on dissident republicans at Coventry University. “We’ve seen an escalation of activity coming up to Easter, and then you have the police responding with searches and arrests, which can lead to street riots.”
The outburst of violence was an ominous reminder of the deadly conflict between militant groups of Catholic republicans and Protestant loyalists, who favor remaining part of Britain, that plagued Northern Ireland until a peace agreement was signed in 1998.
“It’s important that we all stand together now and resist any further escalation of this,” Mr. Hamilton said.
Saoradh (Irish for “Liberation”), a group linked to the New I.R.A., said in a statement that “the blame for last night lies squarely at the feet of the British crown forces, who sought to grab headlines and engineered confrontation with the community.”
The group said that a “republican volunteer” had tried to defend Creggan from an attack by the police, which had prompted the riot. “Tragically a young journalist covering the events, Lyra McKee, was killed accidentally while standing behind armed crown force personnel and armored vehicles,” the statement said.
Sinn Fein, the former political wing of the Irish Republican Army, and the Democratic Unionist Party condemned the killing of Ms. McKee. Sinn Fein called it an “attack on all the community.”
In her last Twitter post — which was retweeted by Naomi O’Leary, a friend and fellow journalist — Ms. McKee wrote: “Derry tonight. Absolute madness.”
The violence on Thursday came amid the turmoil caused by Britain’s plans to leave the European Union, a bloc that includes the Republic of Ireland. There are concerns that Britain might leave without any agreement defining its relationship to the union, leading to a “hard border” between Ireland and Northern Ireland, with barriers and checkpoints.
Northern Ireland has not had a functioning government for over two years, since the collapse of a power-sharing agreement between its two main parties — one mostly Protestant, the other mainly Catholic.
The Brexit border paradox and the political deadlock in Northern Ireland have, in turn, raised concerns about a resumption of violence, particularly after several packages containing explosives were found last month at the University of Glasgow and three London transport hubs, including Heathrow Airport. The authorities attributed the packages to a splinter group of the Irish Republican Army.
“I don’t have any doubt that Brexit is something that is going to invigorate them and bring them out of the shadows,” said Darach MacDonald, a writer and journalist based in Londonderry.
Despite the outside perception that the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement ended violence in Northern Ireland, police figures for weapons seizures, arrests, assaults and armed attacks remain high, Ms. McGlinchey said, although nothing on the scale of the 1968 to 1998 era of “the Troubles.”
Mr. MacDonald also sees a cultural force at work, a perverse nostalgia for the Troubles, particularly among bored urban youths too young to have experienced them. He says that while the shots that killed McKee may have been fired by a republican militant, most of the young men rioting in the streets were most likely unaffiliated, merely participating in what has become, in many run-down areas of Northern Ireland, a sort of folk ritual.
“It would be something that they would see on news reels,” he said. “A large part of the youth subculture in Derry is now a re-enactment of the past.” He added: “Part of the culture here is a nostalgia for a period when people in the outside world took heed of what happened here. There is an anger about being sidelined, and I suppose that does hanker back to a period when Derry mattered, for all the wrong reasons, but it mattered.”
The apparently accidental victim of the shooting, Ms. McKee, was an investigative journalist from Belfast who was recognized by Forbes magazine in 2016 as one of its “30 Under 30 Europe” for digging “into topics that others don’t care about.”
She had worked as an editor for the website Mediagazer since 2011 and had written for BuzzFeed News and Mosaic Science.
“Letter to My 14-Year-Old Self,” an article she wrote about the abuse and support she received while growing up gay, was widely read online and made into a short film.
Ms. McKee grew up on Cliftonville Road in Belfast, near the area that saw some of the worst violence during  the Troubles. Her work often examined the legacies of that era.
A local journalist, Leona O’Neill, wrote on Twitter that she was standing beside Ms. McKee on Thursday night when Ms. McKee fell. She said the police immediately put her in the back of their vehicle and took her to a hospital.
In her Twitter feed, Ms. O’Neill described people throwing gasoline bombs, bricks and bottles at the police in the Creggan area. Videos showed vehicles on fire.
She said people had gathered in the streets after a large number of police officers started searching a home in the area.
After violence erupted, the police appealed for calm.
The killing happened the same day that Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited the city to show support for the peace agreement that the United States helped broker two decades ago. Ms. Pelosi said it was vital to keep a “seamless border” after Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.
Ms. McKee wrote a book, “Angels With Blue Faces,” about the 1981 murder of the Rev. Robert Bradford, a member of the British Parliament from Belfast.
Last year, she signed a two-book deal with the publishing house Faber & Faber. One of those books, “The Lost Boys,” investigates the disappearances of young men in Belfast in the late 1960s and 1970s, and is scheduled for release next year.
WASHINGTON — President Trump sought to reassure nervous allies on Wednesday that his administration would continue an unrelenting hunt for Islamic State fighters “for many years to come,” even as the United States prepares to withdraw troops from the war zones of Syria and Afghanistan.
Mr. Trump, speaking to international diplomats at the State Department, said he expected to soon announce that the United States and its partners, including Syrian Arab and Kurdish allies, will have reclaimed the last slivers of territory that Islamic State fighters control in Syria.
But the president acknowledged that even after that happens, militants will go underground and continue to pose a serious threat wherever the extremist group operates.
“Remnants can be very dangerous,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re sick. They’re demented.”
His comments, echoing themes from his State of the Union address on Tuesday, was a notable departure from the bluster of his assertion in December that the Islamic State had been defeated. For a commander in chief who frequently ridicules international organizations — including the European Union and NATO — Mr. Trump was uncharacteristically solicitous of the 79 nations and international organizations that make up the global coalition to fight ISIS.
“This struggle against terrorism is a shared fight. We do it together,” Mr. Trump said in his 10-minute speech to the diplomats, who greeted him with warm applause. “We will be working with you for many years to come. I say that unfortunately.”
The president said he was looking forward to giving “a warm welcome back home” to the 2,000 American troops he ordered to pull out of Syria, but he offered no timetable for when the withdrawal would conclude. Military commanders have said it will take about four months; some equipment has left, but so far no troops.
Earlier at the conference, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo aimed to play down the impact of the American forces’ departure. “The drawdown will be well coordinated, and our policy priorities in Syria have remained unchanged,” he said.
There was no mention on Wednesday of the warning issued a day earlier by the top American general overseeing operations in the Middle East, Joseph L. Votel. In Senate testimony, General Votel said the Islamic State could stage a resurgence in Syria once the Pentagon withdraws its troops.
The president also avoided any mention of the future role of American troops in Iraq. Mr. Trump, during an interview that aired Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” said he wanted American troops to remain in Iraq to “watch Iran” — a sudden announcement that angered Iraqi leaders and surprised the Pentagon.
Iraq’s foreign minister, Mohammed Ali al-Hakim, speaking to the State Department conference after Mr. Pompeo, emphasized Iraqi sovereignty.
“Iraq welcomes the efforts of the international coalition in Iraq,” he said. Its actions, he said, “include most importantly the complete respect of the territorial integrity of Iraq and for all operations to take place with the knowledge of the government of Iraq.”
A senior administration official, speaking to reporters on a background call before the conference, doubled down on Mr. Trump’s earlier comments about monitoring Iran from Iraq, saying the administration was “perfectly justified in wanting to keep a close eye on them.”
In northeastern Syria, where an American-backed militia faced tough fighting on the ground, one commander, Adnan Afrin, put the long-term challenge confronting the United States and its allies this way: “ISIS may be defeated on the ground, but it lives on in people’s brains.”
JABA, Pakistan — A madrasa, or Islamic school, on a remote hilltop in northeastern Pakistan that was the target of an Indian air strike just over six weeks ago is still not ready to give up its secrets.
For the first time since the Indian government said it had killed hundreds of "terrorists" and their trainers and associates in the school's compound, Pakistani authorities on Wednesday allowed a group of journalists working for foreign news organizations, and foreign diplomats based in Islamabad, access to the site.
The expectation among some of the visitors was that it might help to settle a number of mysteries about the attack. In particular, whether, as India had said, it was a huge success and took out a major militant training camp or whether - as Pakistan says - India's warplanes missed the madrasa compound completely and hit surrounding hills instead. The difference - as many as 300 dead militants or no fatalities at all.
There was also the question about whether the madrasa, one of more than 30,000 across Pakistan where children of all ages are taught to memorize and recite the Koran, was a cover for the Islamist group Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), which was allegedly using the site to train fighters to infiltrate Indian-controlled Kashmir. 
JeM claimed responsibility for a suicide car bomb attack in Kashmir that killed 40 Indian paramilitary police on Feb 14, triggering the Indian attack and the worst hostilities between the two nuclear-armed nations for many years.
But the journalists and diplomats, most of whom spent well over an hour climbing steep slopes to get to the madrasa in the Jaba village area near the town of Balakot, didn't get enough time to make any kind of informed assessment. 
They were mostly restricted to looking around the madrasa's main building. They were hurried away by the army, which organized the trip, after less than half an hour. Those arriving by vehicle had even less time.
The interactions with teachers and about 100 children at the madrasa - from the very young to older teenagers - were limited. The visitors were shown a group of children learning passages from the Koran partly by rocking their heads back and forward in rhythm. One teacher said he had worked at the madrasa for six years.
TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE 
At least three of the diplomats, who were mainly from Western countries and the Middle East and included some military attaches, said it was very difficult to draw any firm conclusions because of the six-week delay in gaining access and the restricted time allowed to look around. 
"I don't think the site was hit but I still can't be 100 percent after today," said one Western diplomat. "As to whether JeM were here - they may have been but I can't determine that from this either."
The diplomats declined to be named given the sensitivity of the subject.
When asked after the visit about the limitations, armed forces chief spokesman Major General Asif Ghafoor said Pakistan had nothing to hide and that if schedules allowed, journalists could in the future come and spend a night or even a month at the site.
He denied that the madrasa had recently been used by JeM. If there was a relationship it was a long time ago, he suggested.
On the trek up to the compound, past small sheep and goat farms and through pastoral scenery on a beautiful spring day, journalists and diplomats were shown craters that the allegedly wayward missiles had created on the surrounding hillsides.
NO SIGN OF REBUILDING
Indian Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale said on the day of the strike, Feb. 26, that "a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders, and groups of jihadis who were being trained for Fidayeen action were eliminated" in the attack. Fidayeen is a term used to describe Islamist militants, or jihadis, on suicide missions.
Other Indian officials have come up with similar claims but despite repeated requests from journalists, the Indian government has not produced evidence that a camp was destroyed or that any militants were killed.
The claims have been an issue in India's general election, which started on Thursday. Senior government officials - including Prime Minister Narendra Modi - have attacked opposition politicians who ask for evidence as unpatriotic.
Satellite pictures have indicated that the main structures on the hill top appear to be in similar condition after the attack as they were before. 
Those visiting the site on Wednesday didn't see any signs that there had been significant building work to either clear structures or erect new ones. And the vegetation didn't appear to have suffered the stress that might be expected from a missile attack.
A series of Indian media reports claimed in March that the Indian jets had used smaller precision-guided bombs with warheads that were capable of penetrating a building and then killing its occupants but without blowing up the structure.
Ghafoor told the foreign journalists earlier in the week that he couldn't understand how the idea of a missile that blows up inside buildings like those at the madrasa without hurting the structure could carry any credibility. He challenged India to show how that could be done.
The main madrasa building itself doesn't appear to be reinforced in any major way - it has a metal roof with some modest wooden beams.
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, meeting foreign correspondents in Islamabad on Tuesday, asked if there had ever been a target.
"We are still in two minds," he said. "Did they intend to hit a target or was it just symbolic?"
 (Reporting by Martin Howell and Salahuddin; Editing by Nick Macfie and Raju Gopalakrishnan)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
President Trump considers side-stepping Congress, India proposes new censorship measures and China brings digital propaganda to the people. Here’s the latest: 
Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said that the president planned to make the declaration, allowing him to bypass Congress to get funds for his promised wall at the southern border.
That would set up a constitutional clash with lawmakers over who controls the federal purse. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work.
Mr. McConnell said Mr. Trump would act after signing off on a border security deal that Congress is about to approve to avert another government shutdown. The deal provides just a fraction of the wall funding Mr. Trump had demanded.
Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said that the agency was so alarmed by President Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.
Meanwhile, the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s ongoing Russia investigation. 
The technology giant announced it wasn’t going to “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.
Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.
The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.
There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.
The government has proposed new measures that would give it more power to monitor and suppress information on the internet, drawing comparisons with China’s muscular censorship.
“The proposed changes have an authoritarian bent,” said one activist.
Details: The new rules would allow Indian officials to demand the removal of posts or videos from Facebook, Twitter, Google, TikTok and other platforms that they deem libelous, hateful, deceptive or invasive of privacy.
Internet companies would also have to build new tools that would enable blockling “unlawful information or content,” and would need to weaken privacy protections of messaging services, like WhatsApp, so that authorities can trace messages back to their original senders.
What’s next? Public comment on the proposal has ended so Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could implement the measures at any time. The administration has been eager to push this through before national election dates are announced, which would trigger special pre-election measures that limit new policies.
Working independently as well as through trade groups, Microsoft, Facebook and dozens of other tech companies are fighting back against the proposals.
As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans are worried that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.
This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear.
One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has turned into a rallying cry for young artists and activists.
Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. And women, in particular, have voiced concerns about their rights in the future.
Kashmir: A vehicle filled with explosives ran into a convoy of paramilitary forces in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, killing at least 40 soldiers — perhaps the deadliest attack there in 20 years. The Jaish-e-Muhammed, which the U.S. considers a terrorist organization, quickly claimed responsibility.
Saudi Arabia: Apple and Google are being pressured to remove an app that lets male “guardians” track and restrict the movement of women in the kingdom, accusing the tech companies of enabling gender discrimination.
Philippines: Maria Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler, a news start-up that has been critical of President Rodrigo Duterte, was released on bail a day after she was arrested in a digital libel case.
Brazil: After a mining dam collapsed last month, burying more than a 150 people under mud, our team used geospatial analysis to map out other high risk areas.
Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are working on how to adjust their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.
Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter and ex-husband of Mandy Moore dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.
Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.
Airbus: The aircraft maker said it would cease production of the mammoth double-decker A380. Orders for the plane dwindled as air travel shifted focus to smaller jets and regional airports.
JPMorgan Chase: The financial giant became the first major U.S. bank to issue its own cryptocurrency. The JPM Coin, representing a single U.S. dollar, will enter testing in a few months.
China: A new app designed by the government allows users to catch up on the latest state media reports, view a quote of the day from President Xi Jinping and quiz themselves on his policies. It’s Beijing’s latest effort to bring Communist Party propaganda initiatives into the digital age.
Brexit: The increasingly messy divorce between Britain and the E.U. bloc is, according to the Dutch, akin to a furry blue monster.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Wait, you don’t need a recipe. Sam Sifton gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table without one.
The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.
Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore each spot. 
Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.
It was a surprise to some readers as well, who wrote in to ask if we had our facts straight.
Fortunately, we did. Celsius was from Sweden, and wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers. That’s because the minus sign could be missed, resulting in errors.
Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, in the 1740s, he ordered a thermometer using Celsius’ gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.
Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional wisdom or understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.
Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Updated February 14, 2019: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, announced that President Trump planned to declare a national emergency so he can bypass Congress and build his long-promised wall along the southwestern border. Read the latest here.
WASHINGTON — As the budget standoff between President Trump and congressional Democrats grinds into the third week of a partial government shutdown, the White House has floated the idea that Mr. Trump might invoke emergency powers to build his proposed wall on the Mexican border without lawmakers’ approval.
That route could resolve the immediate crisis by giving Mr. Trump a face-saving way to sign spending bills that do not include funding for his wall. But it would be an extraordinarily aggressive move — at a minimum, a violation of constitutional norms — that would most likely thrust the wall’s fate into the courts. Here is a primer on whether Mr. Trump can use emergency powers to proceed with the project without explicit congressional permission.
The president has the authority to declare a national emergency, which activates enhancements to his executive powers by essentially creating exceptions to rules that normally constrain him. The idea is to enable the government to respond quickly to a crisis.
Although presidents have sometimes claimed that the Constitution gives them inherent powers to act beyond ordinary legal limits in an exigency, those claims tend to fare poorly when challenged in court.
But presidents are on firmer legal ground when they invoke statutes in which Congress delegated authorities to the executive branch that can be generated in emergencies. In a recent study, the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law identified 123 provisions of law granting presidents a range of such powers.
The National Emergencies Act, enacted during the post-Watergate reform era, regulates how presidents may invoke such powers. It requires them to formally declare a national emergency and tell Congress which statutes are being activated.
[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]
Maybe. The Trump administration could point to two laws and say they allow officials to proceed with building a border wall without first obtaining explicit authorization and appropriations from Congress, according to Elizabeth Goitein, who oversaw the Brennan Center’s study and is a co-director of its Liberty and National Security Program.
One of the laws permits the secretary of the Army to halt Army civil works projects during a presidentially declared emergency and instead direct troops and other resources to help construct “authorized civil works, military construction and civil defense projects that are essential to the national defense.”
Another law permits the secretary of defense, in an emergency, to begin military construction projects “not otherwise authorized by law that are necessary to support such use of the armed forces,” using funds that Congress had appropriated for military construction purposes that have not yet been earmarked for specific projects.
In light of those statutes and similar ones that give presidents flexibility to redirect funds in a crisis, the Trump administration could point to serious arguments to back up Mr. Trump if he invokes emergency powers to build a wall, said William C. Banks, a Syracuse University law professor who helped write a 1994 book about tensions between the executive and legislative branches over security and spending, “National Security Law and the Power of the Purse.”
“The fundamental principle is that no president or official may spend funds that were not appropriated for that purpose,” he said. “But I think that it’s possible that the president could declare a national emergency and then rely on authority Congress has historically granted for exigencies to free up some funds to support constructing a barrier along the border.”
No. If he invokes emergency powers to build a border wall, Mr. Trump is almost certain to invite a court battle. While Ms. Goitein agreed that “there is a nonfrivolous legal case to be made” that emergency-powers laws might empower Mr. Trump to spend military funds on a wall, she also pointed to counterarguments any lawsuit would have to contend with.
For example, she noted, under one of the laws Mr. Trump might try to invoke, the military may redirect funds to build only projects that Congress has separately authorized. Lawmakers have not approved a military wall spanning the border.
Still, the administration might argue that Congress has effectively preapproved a wall-like barrier under other laws, including one that authorizes the military to construct border “fences” blocking drug-smuggling corridors, and another, the Secure Fence Act of 2006, that empowers the Department of Homeland Security to build “physical infrastructure enhancements” along the border.
The government could skip the requirement to identify pre-existing authorization for a wall if it invoked a different emergency-powers law for the funds, but that route would raise other problems, Ms. Goitein said. Among them, the government would need to show that a wall meets the legal definition of military construction even though it is not clearly tied to a military facility or installation and that the southern border situation represents the kind of emergency that requires the use of the armed forces.
Probably not.
If Mr. Trump declares that the situation along the southern border suddenly constitutes an emergency that justifies building a wall without explicit congressional sanction, he will run up against a reality: that the facts on the ground have not drastically shifted. The number of people crossing the border unlawfully is far down from its peak of nearly two decades ago. The recent caravans from Central America primarily consist of migrants who are not trying to sneak across the border but instead are presenting themselves to border officials and requesting asylum.
And while Mr. Trump and his aides keep claiming that terrorists are sneaking in across the border, including assertions that they are doing so by the thousands, as a matter of empirical reality, there has been no such instance in the modern era.
Still, as a matter of legal procedure, facts may be irrelevant. Before a court could decide that Mr. Trump had cynically declared an emergency under false pretenses, the court would first have to decide that the law permits judges to substitute their own thinking for the president’s in such a matter. The Justice Department would surely argue that courts should instead defer to the president’s determination.
“If any court would actually let itself review whether this is a national emergency, he would be in big trouble,” Ms. Goitein said. “I think it would be an abuse of power to declare an emergency where none exists. The problem is that Congress has enabled that abuse of power by putting virtually no limits on the president’s ability to declare an emergency.”
In part by accident. When passing many emergency-powers laws, Congress attached a procedure that would let lawmakers override any particular invocation of that authority. The National Emergencies Act, for example, permitted Congress to rescind an emergency if both the House and the Senate voted for a resolution rejecting the president’s determination that one existed.
But in 1983, the Supreme Court struck down such legislative vetoes. The justices ruled that for a congressional act to have legal effect, it must be presented to the president for signature or veto. Because it takes two-thirds of both chambers to override a veto, the ruling significantly eroded the check and balance against abuse that lawmakers had intended to be part of their delegation of standby emergency powers to presidents.
NEW DELHI — Indian warplanes conducted airstrikes in Pakistan on Tuesday, Pakistani officials said, in an escalation of tensions between the nuclear-armed nations after a suicide bombing against Indian troops in the disputed Kashmir region this month.
It was the first time that Indian aircraft had crossed the Kashmir Line of Control to strike in decades. But it was unclear what, if anything, the attack jets hit on the Pakistani side, raising the possibility that India was making a calculated bet to assuage public anger but minimize the risk of a major Pakistani military response.
A spokesman for Pakistan’s armed forces, Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, on Tuesday posted on Twitter four images of a forested area pockmarked with small craters and debris, which he said was the site of Indian airstrikes.
The Indian Foreign Ministry confirmed in a news briefing that a strike had occurred but would give no further details. The Indian news media, quoting local military officials, said Indian Mirage 2000 fighter jets dropped bombs on a “terrorist camp” in Pakistan-controlled territory at 3:30 a.m. local time.
No casualties or damage were reported, General Ghafoor said. The planes dropped the bombs near Balakot, which is close to the disputed border of India and Pakistan.
“Facing timely and effective response from Pakistan Air Force released payload in haste while escaping which fell near Balakot,” General Ghafoor wrote.
Tensions have escalated in the Kashmir Valley since a Feb. 14 attack by a suicide bomber who drove an explosive-filled vehicle into a convoy of Indian troops. At least 40 soldiers were killed, the deadliest attack in the region in decades. India blamed Pakistan for the assault.
Though India and Pakistan routinely shell each other across what is known as the Line of Control, this is the first time in years that either side has deployed warplanes to fly across it.
Western security officials have raised questions about the existence of a large-scale training camp, saying that Pakistan no longer runs such camps and that militant groups are spread out in small groups around the country.
Analysts and diplomats in New Delhi said the targets of the Indian airstrikes were unclear, as any terrorist groups operating along the border would have cleared out in recent days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India vowed retaliation over the Kashmir attack.
Residents have also fled the area as hundreds of Kashmiris have been arrested and India has moved more troops into the region.
The Indian attack is likely to draw a response from Pakistan, analysts say.
“The Pakistanis are bound to react, conventionally and not through a proxy like a militant group,” said Rahul Bedi, an analyst at the London-based Jane’s Information Group, which tracks the defense industry. “Where they react and when is something that only Pakistanis know. This is a dangerous situation, as this brinkmanship can escalate quickly.”
The American government has typically been a broker between India and Pakistan, conducting shuttle diplomacy in similarly heated situations. But President Trump has taken a hard line on Pakistan while drawing closer to India since coming to office in 2017. Observers fear the situation may escalate further in the absence of a third nation tamping down tensions.
Early last year, Mr. Trump cut some $1.3 billion in military assistance to Pakistan because of the country’s support of terrorist groups. Pakistan’s military denies that it engages terrorist groups to achieve its defense and foreign policy objectives.
India controls much of Kashmir, while Pakistan controls a smaller part of the region, which was left in an undetermined state after the British partition of India in 1947. It has seen decades of violence from militants seeking independence.
[New development: After India’s strike on Pakistan, both sides leave room for de-escalation.]
In the run-up to Indian elections this spring, and with Mr. Modi facing a fierce re-election fight, voters have demanded that New Delhi respond to the Kashmir attack with force against Pakistan.
“What they hit is speculation for now — they say they hit a terrorist camp, but a lot of intelligence sources say those camps in Pakistan had been cleaned out in recent days,” Mr. Bedi said. “This is more political symbolism than anything else. Mr. Modi had to show some demonstrable action on India’s part, ahead of elections.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said today that the country would prohibit the types of guns and equipment used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week.
New Zealand’s largest opposition party said it supported the measures, which Ms. Ardern emphasized would require a buyback of banned weapons in circulation and the regulation of firearms and ammunition.
Closer look: New Zealand’s plan is focused on capability, not just a particular class of weapons. We compared rules for gun purchases in 16 countries.
Yesterday: As the first six victims of the terrorist attacks were laid to rest, some families were still waiting to learn the fate of their loved ones.
For aircraft manufacturers, the practice of charging to upgrade a plane is a major source of revenue. Some add-ons are aesthetic, but others involve systems that are fundamental to the plane’s operations.
After two deadly crashes involving the same jet model, Boeing will make standard a feature that it had charged for, as part of an effort to get the planes in the air again. Neither of the planes that crashed in Ethiopia and Indonesia was equipped with the feature, which is not required by regulators.
Yesterday: The Defense Department said it was investigating complaints that the acting defense secretary, Patrick Shanahan, had been promoting his former employer, Boeing, and disparaging its military contractor competitors.
Go deeper: Investigators in Indonesia described confusion and prayer in the cockpit before the Lion Air crash in October. “God is great,” the co-pilot prayed.
Saying on Wednesday that the U.S. economy was slowing more than it had previously thought, the central bank left interest rates unchanged and signaled little appetite for raising them in the near future.
The Fed said that growth appeared to be slowing under the weight of the trade war, economic slowdowns in Europe and China, and fading stimulus from the tax cuts of 2017.
What’s next: The central bank expects 2.1 percent growth this year, down from the 2.3 percent it forecast in December — and more than a percentage point less than the 3.2 percent growth predicted by the White House. In 2020, the Fed projects growth of 1.9 percent.
Mr. Trump escalated his criticism of the Republican senator who died in August, saying on Wednesday that he gave Mr. McCain “the funeral he wanted, and I didn’t get ‘thank you.’” 
“I have to be honest: I’ve never liked him much,” Mr. Trump said at a tank factory in Ohio. We checked some of his claims. Earlier Wednesday, Meghan McCain said of Mr. Trump’s renewed attacks on her father, “This is a new bizarre low.”
Another angle: Two years into Mr. Trump’s term, many businesses appear to be prioritizing their balance sheets over any backlash caused by the president’s efforts to compel them to build and hire.
Related: Mr. Trump said that he supported the public release of the special counsel report on possible Russian ties to his 2016 campaign and that Attorney General William P. Barr should “let it come out.”
Images of two enslaved people — Renty, pictured above, and Delia, his daughter — were commissioned nearly 170 years ago by a Harvard professor for a racist study arguing that black people were an inferior race. They are now stored at the university as cultural artifacts.
But to the Lanier family, who say they are descendants of Renty and Delia, the photographs are records of a personal family history. One member is suing for ownership. 
Cyclone’s aftermath: Nearly a week after southern Africa was devastated by an enormous storm, heavy rains were still endangering communities isolated by flooding, and complicating rescue efforts.
Brexit delay: European Union officials said on Wednesday that they would allow Britain to postpone its withdrawal from the bloc, but only if Parliament endorsed Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan, which lawmakers have already rejected twice.
Tensions in Venezuela: The country’s intelligence police detained a top aide to the opposition leader Juan Guaidó early today, a move that could provoke fresh punitive measures from the U.S.
Unprotected and underwater: An Iowa town had to remove an improvised levee that held back the Missouri River in 2011. Now it’s flooded.
The 2020 election: As former Vice President Joe Biden considers a run for the White House, he and his advisers have discussed two ways to reassure voters about electing a 78-year-old president: naming a running mate earlier than is customary, and the possibility of serving only one term.
Sexual harassment accusations: Michael Steinhardt, a retired hedge fund founder and a leading philanthropist to Jewish nonprofits, has been accused by seven women of making inappropriate comments over more than two decades. He denies many of the accusations. 
Levi’s goes public: The maker of denim and Dockers is expected to start trading on the public markets today for the second time in its 165-year history. 
Snapshot: Above, Wednesday was the official start of spring in the Northern Hemisphere, and this is what the equinox looks like from space. From 22,000 miles out, two nearly equal slices cut straight down the middle.
Life without Facebook: Our personal tech columnist didn’t lose touch with his true friends after deleting his account — but strange things did occur.
N.C.A.A. basketball: The first round of the men’s tournament begins today. If you haven’t filled out your bracket yet, here are six unconventional picks to consider. Follow our live coverage of Day 1 here.
Late-night comedy: Trevor Noah watched President Trump’s attacks on John McCain: “I really can’t believe Trump is beefing with a dead man.” 
What we’re reading: This first-person essay in HuffPost. Dan Levin, who covers American youth for The Times, writes: “What happens when a gay-married, nonbinary, atheist Jew moves to the Deep South and then decides to own a gun? A complicated collision of fear and values.”
Cook: The crisp crust is the best part of herbed rice with tahdig.
Watch: The director J.C. Chandor narrates a sequence from “Triple Frontier,” his Netflix film, in which Ben Affleck’s character pays for a catastrophic mistake.
Go: Christine Goerke overcame a vocal crisis to become a leading dramatic soprano. Now she’s taking on Wagner’s “Ring” cycle at the Met.
Read: “Mama’s Last Hug,” Frans de Waal’s examination of the world of animal and human emotions, debuts this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists.
Smarter Living: What if you didn’t manage to land that perfect job? Our Smarter Living editor offers guidance on turning rejection into an advantage. Start with feeling the regret, which is not easy. Then list three things that are going well for you, for signals of where your true passion lies.
And we have ideas for buying wine for your wedding day without breaking the bank.
After Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed this month — the second fatal accident for a Boeing 737 Max in five months — pretty much all jets of that type were grounded.
But planes are designed to be in the air. Putting them out of service takes more than just finding somewhere to park and turning off the engines.
“Basically, you’re going to pickle it,” said Vandi Cooyar, the president of Logistic Air, an aircraft leasing company. A grounded plane needs to have its systems powered up and its engines turned on regularly. Grounded fleets need to be protected from the elements.
Such safeguards, Mr. Cooyar said, make it easier to bring planes back into service when allowed — though that, too, takes some finessing.
For all his bluster, Donald Trump is generally seen by presidential observers as a shockingly weak president. Brought to office in an election in which he lost the popular vote, his approval ratings have remained consistently low. Even with his party in control of the White House and Congress for two years, beyond a typical Republican tax cut, Mr. Trump failed to secure a signature legislative accomplishment. 
The president may seem weak, but the presidency remains strong. Mr. Trump has illustrated that even a feeble commander in chief can impose his will on the nation if he lacks any sense of restraint or respect for political norms and guardrails. True, Mr. Trump has not been able to run roughshod over Congress or ignore the constraints of the federal courts. But he has been able to inflict extensive damage on our political institutions and public culture. He has used his power to aggravate, rather than calm, the fault lines that have divided our country.
His “wall” government shutdown is the latest example of his misuse of executive power. To end this essentially pointless standoff of his own making, he is exploring the use of national emergency powers to build a wall Congress and a majority of the public don’t want.
The Trump administration has provided a new example of an old concept: the “imperial presidency.” That term, famously used by the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. in 1973 to describe the excesses and abuses of the Nixon White House, fell out of use almost as soon as President Richard Nixon fell from grace. The reckoning of Watergate and the first-ever resignation of a president seemed to show that the executive branch was not as uncontrollable as it had once seemed. 
Congress enacted a wide range of reforms that promised to restrain presidential power. The War Powers Act of 1973 created mechanisms to ensure that Congress authorized the deployment of American troops abroad. The Budget Reform of 1974 centralized the process used by the House and the Senate to make decisions about spending money so as to make the legislative branch more of an equal of the executive. The Campaign Finance Reform Act of 1974 established a system of public finance for presidential elections along with spending and contribution limits.
The National Emergencies Act of 1976 authorized the president to initiate emergency powers of government, but with the condition that he or she specify the particular provisions in detail. (This is the authority President Trump has reportedly explored as a way of funding his wall.) Intelligence reforms imposed limits on the C.I.A. and F.B.I., whose surveillance and national security operations had greatly enhanced the president’s power. Last but not least, the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 sought to watch against a replay of Watergate by establishing the Office of the Independent Counsel to ensure that there would be independent investigations into executive branch corruption.
Despite these reforms, four decades later, the “imperial presidency” still seems to be alive and well. What went wrong?
The most familiar challenge stems from the fact that in the midst of national security crises, much of the nation remains willing to allow presidents to respond to its perceived enemies. Despite the War Powers Act and the larger lessons of Vietnam, Congress has continued to allow presidents to send troops into combat without a formal declaration of war. In response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, Congress passed legislation authorizing a vast expansion of the national security system that gave President George W. Bush and his successors access to new organizations, programs and institutions through which to pursue national security goals without congressional support. 
Since the 1970s, Democrats and Republicans have sorted themselves by party, with less room for internal dissent and less of a will to criticize or challenge a president from one’s own party. Both parties have been willing to grant the president more authority when it served their purpose. The main dynamic for Democrats has centered around party leaders supporting presidents who use executive action, through regulatory orders and rule making, to deal with urgent policy problems that congressional Republicans oppose. Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton turned to executive power to deal with energy and climate change when Congress refused to do so. President Barack Obama did the same on immigration after congressional obstruction prevented compromise legislation from passing.
Republicans have done much in the same vein, in moments of divided and united government alike. Republicans have also gone a step further to protect the party’s electoral interests through the use of, for instance, strict voter-ID laws. 
Aggressive presidents also depend on a partisan media to do their work without too much pushback. President Trump has demonstrated how this could be turned into a powerful tool for the White House. Mr. Trump has routinely repeated stories seen on the “Fox & Friends” morning program and leaned on conservative cable hosts like Sean Hannity and Lou Dobbs for advice as well. Indeed, the line between the Trump White House and conservative media outlets has become blurred beyond recognition. The former CNBC host Larry Kudlow now serves as head of the National Economic Council, while the former “Fox & Friends” host Heather Nauert has been nominated to serve as ambassador to the United Nations. Bill Shine, a former executive at Fox News, now runs the White House Communications Office. 
The imperial presidency is, in many ways, propped up by media partisans who insist that the naked emperor has glorious new clothes.
Mr. Trump has revealed that the president can act “imperially” because norms matter as much as rules and procedure. The reformers of the 1970s missed the ways in which reforms simply cannot restrain a president who doesn’t care about institutions. The most important source of presidential restraint has been the character of the person in office. 
For all his flaws, Mr. Nixon was unwilling to tear down the government to save himself. Mr. Trump has revealed that when a president is willing to cross what seemed to be clear lines, no one is there to hold him back.
With Democrats now in control of the House of Representatives and the Mueller investigation seemingly coming to a conclusion as well, Mr. Trump will likely be held to account, in one form or another. But it’s important to remember that the “imperial presidency” will outlive any one president unless more is done to institute real checks and balances on the office itself.
Congress has the most effective means of putting new limits on the White House through oversight. Many of the tools that Congress needs are right in front of it — holding serious hearings about the material in a Mueller report or making sure that legislation like the National Emergency Act is enforced — but it must use them.
If Mr. Trump invokes emergency power to build a wall, Congress needs to respond by passing legislation that will take back some of the power it granted in 1976.
Most important, reforming presidential power will fall on the shoulders of voters. In the end, the most effective check on presidential power is to elect presidents who will exercise their authority with some restraint and respect our democratic institutions. That is the choice voters will have in 2020.
NAJAF, Iraq — A group of Iraq's Shi'ite militia groups said on Saturday that they strongly rejected the designation of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corp (IRGC) as a terrorist organization by the United States.
The groups, backed and trained by Tehran, delivered a statement from the home of Iran's consul-general in the Shi'ite holy city of Najaf. 
They announced their solidarity with the Muslim people and the Revolutionary Guards who they said helped to prevent four or five states from falling to Islamic State militants.
President Donald Trump said last week he would name Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a terrorist organization.
The action by Trump, who has taken a hard line toward Iran by withdrawing from the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and re-imposing broad economic sanctions, marks the first time the United States has formally labeled another country's military a terrorist group.
"This is laughable coming from the number one sponsor of terrorism, America," said a spokesman for the Badr Organisation, without providing evidence.
Badr is led by Iraqi militia commander and politician Hadi al-Ameri who's Fateh coalition of militia groups has the second-largest number of seats in Iraq's parliament.
"We reject this action from America and say we have honor to be in the Islamic resistance that fought and beat terrorism," a spokesman for the wider Fateh coalition said.
Some of the militia groups themselves are designated as terrorist organizations by Washington.
Iraqi Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi said on Tuesday that Washington's decision to designate the IRGC a terrorist group could harm his country and the wider region.
Iraqi security forces declared victory over Islamic State in 2017 with help from a U.S.-led coalition and Iran-backed Shi'ite militias, some of which fought U.S. troops earlier following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein.
 (Reporting by Reuters Video News; Writing by Ahmed Aboulenein. Editing by Jane Merriman)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
President Trump walks away without a North Korea deal, Pakistan offers India a way out of the crisis and fish populations decrease as climate change alters ocean temperatures. Here’s the latest: 
President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, failed to reach an agreement at their closely watched meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam, an abrupt turn of events that underscores the risks of leader-to-leader diplomacy. 
Mr. Trump said the talks collapsed because North Korea wanted all sanctions lifted in exchange for dismantling some — not all — of its nuclear weapons program.
“Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said.
North Korea’s foreign minister contradicted Mr. Trump’s narrative, saying the North had asked only for some sanctions to be lifted in exchange for “permanently and completely” dismantling an important nuclear facility.
Reasons: One expert suggested that there had been inadequate preparation and that both leaders were too confident in their negotiating skills.
The White House had been so convinced a deal could be reached that it announced a “signing ceremony” to be held after lunch. And Mr. Kim might have calculated that Mr. Trump would be desperate for a deal after the scathing congressional testimony from his former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen. 
What’s next? After such high-level talks fall apart, there are few places to go. North Korea may continue building out its nuclear arsenal, and tensions may rise again.
Another angle: The failure presents a new setback for President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, whose signature policy vision has been to open up economic cooperation with the North.
Prime Minister Imran Khan said Pakistan would release the captured Indian pilot, Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, today, offering both countries a face-saving way out of a tense crisis that left much of the world on edge.
Mr. Khan also offered to open negotiations with India to defuse hostilities between the two nuclear-armed nations.
Indian officials, however, said that releasing the pilot wouldn’t address the root of the crisis, which they say is Pakistan’s support of terrorist organizations. And some observers believe that the Indian population, especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s conservative base, has no appetite for more negotiations.
Analysis: As the crisis played out — starting from a suicide bombing in Kashmir on Feb. 14 to the downing of at least one Indian jet — Pakistan has dominated the narrative, often portraying itself as the level-headed one of the two countries.
The propaganda battle is beginning to take a toll on Mr. Modi, who is up for re-election this year and is now being accused by some of military adventurism.
Background: This flare up once again brought into focus the uncomfortable relationship that India and Pakistan have shared since partition in 1947 and the significance of the disputed Kashmir region that straddles both countries.
The China Global Television Network America reaches 30 million households in the U.S., from an office just four blocks away from the White House. It employs about 180 journalists, many of them American.
The newsroom’s operations are typical, except when it comes to news about China. Coverage of official policy is uniformly positive, and sensitive stories, like the imprisonment of the Uighur ethnic minority group, are either briefly covered or completely banned.
The network is the international arm of China Central Television, Beijing’s main propaganda organ. But when U.S. authorities asked CGTN America about its ties to the government, the network insisted that Beijing didn’t tell it what to broadcast — a claim difficult to believe, and possibly illegal to make.
Background: After Russian efforts to influence in the 2016 election, U.S. officials stepped up efforts to monitor all such foreign campaigns. And the U.S. is generally increasing scrutiny of Chinese companies, particularly amid the trade war.
Fish stocks are shrinking globally as a result of climate change, putting a key source of food and income for millions around the world at risk, according to a new study published in the journal Science.
The amount of seafood humans could sustainably harvest decreased by 4.1 percent — 1.4 million metric tons — from 1930 to 2010, according to the research, which examined 235 fish populations in 38 ecological regions around the globe.
The study was among the first to look at historical data to determine that fish declines have already begun. High ocean temperatures can kill off both the fish themselves and the sources of food they depend on. 
Hardest hit: Declines were as much as 35 percent in the northeast Atlantic and the Sea of Japan. East Asia is home to some of the fastest growing human populations and ones that are highly dependent on seafood.
Recourse: Guarding against overfishing and improving the overall management of fisheries can help, the researchers said, but slowing or halting climate change would have much broader benefits.
Afghanistan: All American military forces would gradually withdraw from the country over the next three to five years under a new Pentagon plan being discussed in peace talks with the Taliban. The Afghan government, which would share power with the militant group under the deal, has been left out of the talks.
U.S.: The economy cooled at the end of 2018, growing by 2.6 percent. That’s a significant slowdown from the tax cut-fueled growth rate of 4 percent in the middle of the year, and there are signs of further deceleration to come.
Immigrant children: The U.S. government received more than 4,500 complaints in four years about sexual abuse of children held at detention facilities, including an increase in complaints during the Trump administration’s family separations at the border.
Israel: The attorney general announced plans to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on bribery, fraud and breach of trust, the local news media reported. The case would be the culmination of a two-year investigation into Mr. Netanyahu’s dealings with wealthy businessmen, newspaper publishers and more, and he would be the first sitting prime minister to be indicted if the case proceeds.
British climber: A mountaineer whose mother was the first woman to summit Mount Everest solo and his Italian climbing partner have disappeared while climbing Nanga Parbat in Pakistan, a high peak nicknamed “killer mountain.” They were last heard from on Sunday.
Huawei: A video circulating on Chinese social media features a chorus of children dancing and singing the praises of the technology company. Huawei, which has been busy trying to fix its image overseas, says it has nothing to do with the video.
Michael Jackson: A new HBO documentary, “Leaving Neverland,” explores the stories of two men who accuse the pop star of sexually abusing them for years. Our critic Wesley Morris wrestles with their stories and his own fandom of the star.
Rembrandt: No one had spotted any unknown paintings by the Dutch master for four decades. Then the scion of a storied Amsterdam family said he found two, setting off a feud in the international art world. 
A day at The Times: Fifty years ago, “A Day in the Life of The New York Times,” a 230-page book, chronicled 24 hours at the Gray Lady. The anniversary inspired us to take look at how we operate today, drawing on editors and reporters around the world to give you a detailed look at how our report comes together on many platforms alongside the print newspaper.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Cauliflower gets the adobo treatment in this vegetarian dish.
When you’re cleaning out your closet, selling, donating or recycling the old clothes is better for the environment than just tossing them.
How to keep feeling fresh on long, strenuous travel days.
Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, was born 115 years ago Saturday.
He had a unique take on the English language. His inventive use of rhythm and rhyme is at once ridiculous and intoxicating to children and parents alike.
His titles have sold a staggering 650 million copies in more than 45 languages — including Latin, Hebrew and Catalan — and are available in 110 countries.
This global expansion came with a tricky obstacle: how to translate him.
“The challenge is staying true to the original books while being sensitive to the local market,” says Susan Brandt, the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises. “And not lose the magic.”
The solution? Hire local poets to work with translators. That’s how “Snuvs” from “Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!” became “lhufas” in Portuguese, and “Hakken-Kraks’” from “Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” became “Scracchi Stridenti" in Italian.
And as for Sam I Am? In Spanish, he’s Juan Ramón, and he’s obsessed with huevos verdes con jamón.
Karen Thorne, a content strategist, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
The campaign for the votes of 900 million Indians in the continuing national elections — being conducted in seven phases from April 11 to May 23 — has taken a rancorous and religiously polarized tenor, which is unprecedented even for India.
Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, is leading the campaign for his governing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. He remains the focus of much of the campaign for his party as well as for the opposition parties challenging his re-election bid.
Mr. Modi is not seeking to persuade the Indian voters to vote for him and his party on the basis of his record while governing India for the past five years or by presenting compelling ideas for India’s future. Mr. Modi is seeking votes by doing what he does best: raising and stoking fear among the Hindu majority of the potential dangers posed by the presence of a large Muslim minority in India. 
Since he first consolidated power and built his political capital on the back of religious violence against Muslims in Gujarat in 2002 under his watch as chief minister, Mr. Modi has mastered the art of linking the threat of terrorism, Muslims and Pakistan. His strategy has worked in every election he has deployed it in.
His current campaign is taking place in the wake of the Feb. 14 suicide attack in Pulwama district of Indian-administered Kashmir, which killed 40 Indian paramilitary soldiers. The attack was followed by a few weeks of intense escalation and cross-border airstrikes by India and Pakistan.
Mr. Modi has made the Pulwama attack the basis of his most recent recasting of the theme of a terrorism-Pakistan-Muslim threat. On April 9, at a campaign rally, Mr. Modi directed his attention toward young Indians voting for the first time: “Can your first vote be dedicated to the valiant soldiers who carried out the airstrike in Pakistan? Can your first vote be dedicated to the brave martyrs of Pulwama?”
Mr. Modi proceeded to blame the Indian National Congress, the leading opposition party, for the creation of Pakistan in 1947 and claimed that the Congress party’s electoral manifesto speaks the same language as Pakistan.
More than 70 years after independence, Indian governments — mostly led by the Congress party and now by the B.J.P. — have refused to repeal several draconian laws introduced by British colonial rulers, including a particularly egregious law that defines what constitutes sedition or treason.
In its manifesto, the Congress party promised to remove the sedition law, which has been much abused and is seen as a relic of a colonial state. “The Congress has said it wants to do away with the sedition laws,” Mr. Modi said “Pakistan too wants this. It wants a free hand for those who want to work against India.” The prime minister was raising the nationalist pitch and repeating what he has honed in his five years in power: branding all dissent and disagreement with his views as a bid to weaken the nation.
[Follow coverage of the Indian elections in The New York Times.] 
A tactic that Mr. Modi and his party have used in the hope of getting Indians to shed their argumentative nature and conform to their interpretation of militant nationalism is an unprecedented exaltation of the Indian armed forces. They seem to have taken a leaf out of the Iranian playbook by seeking to create a cult of martyrdom by constant references to slain Indian soldiers as martyrs. The usage has been amplified by a largely compliant mass media.
Last week, Yogi Adityanath, who was appointed as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, the most populous Indian state, in 2017 by Mr. Modi, described the Indian Army as Modi’s army. Mr. Adityanath, a firebrand Hindu ascetic, who faces many accusations of stoking and participating in religious violence, was only crudely stating what his leader had already conveyed in a calibrated and effective manner.
A few days after his “Modi’s army” remark, Mr. Adityanath continued with the strategy of religious polarization by painting India’s leading opposition parties as Muslim parties that were fighting his Hindu party. The Samajwadi Party has significant support among lower-castes and Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, and the Bahujan Samaj Party has serious support among India’s Dalits and is headed by Kumari Mayawati, the first Dalit woman to be a chief minister in India. The two parties have formed a coalition to fight Mr. Modi’s B.J.P. in these elections.
Ms. Mayawati responded by calling upon India’s Muslims — about 15 percent of the population — not to split their votes among various parties, as that would benefit the B.J.P. Both Mr. Adityanath and Ms. Mayawati have been temporarily barred from campaigning by the Election Commission of India, which conducts the elections, for directly calling upon Hindus and Muslims for their votes. 
The Hindu nationalists frame the “threat” posed by the Muslim minority by associating them with Pakistan and by raising the specter of an increased Muslim population with illegal immigration of Muslim migrants from Bangladesh, who are described as “infiltrators.”
This fear of immigrants is the staple of right-wing populists from President Trump to Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary. But nowhere is the fear more imaginary than in India, where the Hindu majority of 965 million dwarfs the Muslim minority of about 170 million, and where the two communities have lived together for over 1,000 years. But for a man with Mr. Modi’s rhetorical skill, facts are easy to set aside.
Amit Shah, the president of Mr. Modi’s B.J.P. and his closest associate from his Gujarat days, declared that if re-elected, their government will throw out every illegal immigrant who is not a Buddhist, a Hindu or a Sikh. That left Muslims and Christians.
And yet again on campaign trail, Mr. Modi, whom nobody would accuse of being bothered about minority rights, sought to use the persecution of Hindu and Sikh minorities in Pakistan to whip up passions of Hindu voters. “The fundamentalists tortured our brothers and sisters in Pakistan. Is Congress not a culprit for this?” Mr. Modi said. “Our daughters are being tortured in Pakistan even now,” he added.
For Mr. Modi and his party, such rhetoric is the path to one more election victory, but the changes it sets in motion are not easy to reverse. The antipathy between Hindus and Muslims that he stoked in 2014 was manifest in the low-grade violence and bigotry against the Muslim minority over the next five years. The more permanent this antipathy becomes, the more it is likely to challenge the very fundamentals of India’s democratic polity, which, however awkwardly, has so far managed to accommodate its diversity.
BEERSHEBA, Israel — An Israeli court sentenced a French citizen on Monday to seven years' imprisonment under a plea bargain in which he confessed to using a diplomatic car to help Palestinian gun smugglers.
Romain Franck, a former employee of the French consulate in Jerusalem, was arrested last year and accused by Israeli prosecutors of receiving $7,600 for transporting the contraband between the Islamist-ruled Gaza Strip and occupied West Bank.
He was not charged with complicity in terrorism, sparing him a potentially harsher sentence. Also arrested in the case was Palestinian from East Jerusalem.
Beesheba District Court said that Franck, who was 23 when indicted, would spend seven years in jail, including time already served. He also received an 18-month suspended sentence and ordered to pay a 30,000 shekel (7,420 euro) fine.
A French embassy spokesman declined comment on the sentencing. 
 (Writing by Dan Williams; Editing by Alison Williams)
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher
More than 99 percent of the territory the Islamic State once held in Iraq and Syria is gone — but the United States government may be misunderstanding what that means.
On today’s episode:
Background coverage:
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON — The Latest on President Donald Trump and Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota (all times local):
10 a.m.
President Donald Trump is escalating his feud with Rep. Ilhan Omar, accusing her on Twitter of making "anti-Semitic, anti-Israel and ungrateful U.S. HATE statements."
The comments come a day after the Minnesota Democrat said she's faced increased death threats since Trump spread a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
She's accused Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism and urged him to stop.
Trump is also going after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. He's accusing her of having "lost all control of Congress" and "getting nothing done," and says, before she decides to "defend her leader, Rep. Omar," she should look at her past comments.
He asserts, without evidence, that Omar is "out of control, except for her control of Nancy!"
__
12:22 a.m.
Rep. Ilhan Omar says she's faced increased death threats since President Donald Trump spread around a video that purports to show her being dismissive of the 2001 terrorist attacks. "This is endangering lives," she said, accusing Trump of fomenting right-wing extremism. "It has to stop."
Her statement late Sunday followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that she has taken steps to ensure the safety of the Minnesota Democrat and the speaker's call for Trump to take down the video.
Soon after Pelosi's statement, the video disappeared as a pinned tweet at the top of Trump's Twitter feed, but it was not deleted.
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended Trump earlier Sunday, saying he wished no "ill will" upon the first-term lawmaker.
BERLIN — German authorities have indicted a Sri Lankan man suspected of involvement in killing 15 captured government soldiers while fighting for the Tamil Tigers rebel group.
Federal prosecutors said Friday that 37-year-old Sivatheeban B. is accused of membership in a foreign terrorist organization, war crimes, two cases of manslaughter and 11 cases of attempted manslaughter.
The man, whose surname wasn't released due to German privacy rules, was arrested in August.
Prosecutors allege that in 2008 the suspect guarded 15 captured soldiers as they were driven to a site where they were executed, and later helped burn their bodies. In a separate incident a year later, he fired on 13 soldiers, two of whom died.
The rebel group, which fought for a separate state for ethnic minority Tamils, was defeated in 2009.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. 
The U.S. partial government shutdown is over (for now), Venezuela faces an international ultimatum, and the Afghan war could be near its end. Here’s the latest: 

President Trump temporarily reopened the government, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to shut down parts of the government again or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats can’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15. The question in the meantime is whether the divided government can produce any results.
On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted a decades-long adviser of his, Roger Stone, and revealed the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks’ effort to release hacked Democratic Party emails.
Details: Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone — an eccentric Nixon apostle and self-described dirty trickster — and an explanation of what his indictment means. 
And here is a visual representation of the Trump campaign’s extensive contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks. 
Analysis: The shutdown and the Stone indictment may have hurt the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years.
European countries including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain urged President Nicolás Maduro to schedule new elections within eight days.
If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments say they will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as interim president.
Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening crisis. Mr. Guaidó has urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”
Mr. Maduro, appearing to be striking a conciliatory tone, backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. 
Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping build out 5G networks.
The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.
Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration therefore calculates that Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.
What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China that begin in Washington this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.
The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.
Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.
Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces can stand up against the Taliban without American support.
Fear: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.  
The toll: The war’s toll has been immense: At least 62,000 Afghan military and police officers have been killed, along with possibly as many Taliban — and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.
Coming this week: Britain’s Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably not raise interest rates).
Germany: A panel of various interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades.
Brazil: A dam collapse that left 58 dead and 305 missing is the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history. Alarm over a second dam spread panic and raised outrage about the industry’s perceived impunity. 
Singapore: The city-state has landmarks of Brutalist architecture — built by a 1970s movement partly influenced by a similar one in postwar Britain — and they are incubating gritty, artsy subcultures that belie the image of tidy streets and often-authoritarian governance. Some of the landmarks are on the verge of being sold, prompting calls to save them. 
Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will allow users to communicate across the platforms.
The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where regulations on such sales are rarely enforced.
Spain: The authorities said they had found the body of a 2-year-old boy who fell into a well nearly two weeks ago. 
Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.
Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title, and Naomi Osaka became the first singles player from Japan to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.
In memoriam: Michel Legrand, the French pianist, arranger and composer of hundreds of film scores and songs, among them “The Windmills of Your Mind,” died at 86. 
#ThankGodIt’sMonday? A workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.
You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the important ones.
Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.

Happy Data Privacy Day!
Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.
As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)
Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.
Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.
Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.
Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The man accused of mailing pipe bombs to critics of President Trump is expected to plead guilty next week in federal court in Manhattan, the court’s docket shows.
The defendant, Cesar A. Sayoc Jr., a fervent Trump supporter, sent homemade bombs created with PVC pipe and glass shards to prominent Democrats, including Hillary Clinton and former President Barack Obama, as well as to CNN and the actor Robert DeNiro, the authorities said.
The court’s docket entry states only that there is a plea scheduled for Thursday, but it does not indicate what charges Mr. Sayoc will plead guilty to. He was indicted in November on 30 federal charges, including using a weapon of mass destruction and interstate transportation of an explosive.
Ten of the counts carry a maximum sentence of life in prison, and under federal law, if he were convicted of a certain combination of those counts, the judge would be required to give him a life sentence. A possible plea deal might center on whether Mr. Sayoc could plead guilty to counts that leave the judge the discretion to sentence him to less time.
Mr. Sayoc’s federal public defenders and the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York declined to comment on his expected plea on Friday.
Mr. Sayoc, 56, was arrested on Oct. 26 outside an auto-parts store near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he appeared to be living in a white van covered with images and slogans condemning liberals that are often found on fringe, right-wing social media accounts. One was an image of Mrs. Clinton under cross hairs.
His social media feeds were an electronic version of his van. On Twitter and Facebook, he railed against Mr. Obama and Oprah Winfrey with misspelled racial epithets, and threatened former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. He also praised Mr. Trump and conservative causes.
The arrest came after a fast-moving investigation and manhunt, as investigators tried to discover the source of 16 pipe bombs sent through the mail. The authorities said they were able to pull Mr. Sayoc’s fingerprints from two bomb packages and found his DNA on components of 10 of the improvised bombs.
The indictment against Mr. Sayoc only charges him in connection with five devices that were sent to victims in Westchester County and Manhattan, which are both part of the Southern District of New York.
In addition to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. DeNiro, those packages were sent to John O. Brennan, a former C.I.A. director; James R. Clapper Jr., a former director of national intelligence; and George Soros, a billionaire Democratic donor.
Federal prosecutors have called Mr. Sayoc’s actions “a domestic terrorist attack.”
Mr. Sayoc’s trial had been scheduled for July. Last fall, one of his lawyers asked the judge, Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court, for additional time to investigate the case to determine whether, among other things, there was the possibility of a plea agreement.
It is possible that Mr. Sayoc’s plea could fall through. A defendant preparing to plead can change his mind up to the last minute and opt to go to trial.
Before his arrest, Mr. Sayoc held himself out as an entrepreneur and bodybuilder who promoted exotic-dance shows in southern Florida. But he was also an angry, bankrupt loner who often lived out of his van, held far-right political views and was prone to racist and sexist tirades, according to court documents and people who knew him.
A guilty plea by Mr. Sayoc would resolve one of the major terrorism prosecutions pending in Manhattan. In another case, Judge Vernon S. Broderick on Tuesday granted a defense request for a six-month delay in the trial of Sayfullo Saipov, scheduling it for April 13, 2020.
Mr. Saipov was charged with using a pickup truck to kill eight people on a Manhattan bike path in 2017. He has pleaded not guilty, and if he is convicted, he could face the death penalty.
Alan B. Krueger, who advised two presidents and helped lead economics toward a more scientific approach to research and policymaking, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58.
The cause was suicide, according to a statement by his family released by Princeton University, where Mr. Krueger taught for more than three decades. The Princeton police said they were called to the home on Saturday morning and found Mr. Krueger unresponsive.
Mr. Krueger was an assistant secretary of the Treasury from 2009 to 2010, as President Barack Obama’s administration tried to lead the United States out of its worst recession since the Great Depression. Mr. Obama later named him chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, a post he held from 2011 to 2013. He was the Labor Department’s chief economist under President Bill Clinton from 1994 to 1995.
A labor economist by training, Mr. Krueger was part of a new wave of economists who pushed the field toward a more empirical mind-set, with an emphasis on data rather than theory. He applied that approach broadly: to education, health care, labor markets and terrorism, and even to more lighthearted subjects like the rising price of concert tickets. His latest book, due out in June, is on the economics of the music industry.
“He is certainly among the most — if not the most — significant labor economists and all-around empirical economists of the last three decades,” said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist and frequent collaborator. Mr. Krueger, he said, was one of a handful of researchers who “really changed the shape of economics and turned it into a more serious science.”
Mr. Krueger was perhaps best known for his work in the early 1990s on the effects of the minimum wage, in collaboration with Mr. Katz and another economist, David Card. Standard economic thinking at the time held that raising the minimum wage would reduce employment for low-wage workers; Mr. Katz said that he and Mr. Krueger had expected to find the same. Instead, they discovered no impact on employment — a finding that has proved influential though it remains in dispute.
“Even when people were saying you’re crazy as an economist, he was really willing to let the data lead where it went,” Mr. Katz said.
Mr. Krueger was a young, newly tenured professor in 1994 when he was tapped by the secretary of labor, Robert B. Reich, to serve as chief economist for the department, succeeding Mr. Katz. After two years in the job, Mr. Krueger returned to Princeton and vowed never to return to government, according to a 2014 profile in a Princeton alumni magazine.
But in late 2008, Mr. Krueger got a call from Timothy F. Geithner, Mr. Obama’s pick for Treasury secretary. As Mr. Krueger recalled, Mr. Geithner said: “The economy’s in a free fall. Why don’t you come to Treasury and work on big, consequential things?”
“That was his line,” Mr. Krueger said. “And I couldn’t say no.”
Mr. Krueger spent two years at Treasury as chief economist and assistant secretary for economic policy. Then, after a brief return to Princeton, he went back to Washington as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, where he pushed the administration to focus on issues of inequality and economic opportunity.
At the White House, he developed and popularized the “Great Gatsby curve,” the notion that countries with greater inequality had lower economic mobility from generation to generation.
In a statement on Monday, Mr. Obama praised Mr. Krueger as “someone who was deeper than numbers on a screen or charts on a page.”
“He had a perpetual smile and a gentle spirit — even when he was correcting you,” Mr. Obama said.
Alan Bennett Krueger was born on Sept. 17, 1960, and grew up in Livingston, N.J., less than 50 miles from the university where he would make his professional home. His father, Norman, was an accountant; his mother, Rhoda, taught first grade.
Mr. Krueger attended Cornell University intending to become a lawyer. But while analyzing data for an undergraduate research paper, he found that he enjoyed empirical work. After graduating from Cornell in 1983, he pursued a degree in economics at Harvard University, where he earned a Ph.D. in 1987.
Mr. Krueger arrived at Princeton in 1987 as an empirical revolution was dawning in the economics profession. He quickly made his own contribution, helping to found a survey research center there at a time when relatively few economists were conducting their own surveys. He pioneered the use of so-called natural experiments to study the effects of government policies.
“It was the ability to be both interesting and credible — that was his great gift,” said Lawrence H. Summers, who taught Mr. Krueger at Harvard and later worked with him in the Obama administration. “That’s part of why there’ve been generations of people doing natural experiments.”
Mr. Krueger’s more recent work focused on the structural reasons particular groups have struggled in the modern economy. He studied the effects of long-term unemployment in the wake of the recession, and how the opioid epidemic has pushed some workers, particularly men, out of the labor force.
He also helped bring attention to companies’ use of noncompete agreements with employees as a means of holding down wages, and to occupational licensing rules as an obstacle to workers seeking better-paying careers. He proposed new rules to protect workers in the so-called gig economy, and just last week delivered a lecture at Stanford University on proposals for a universal basic income.
“Economics is a social science, and Alan was someone who was really interested in the social part of it as well as the science part of it,” said Betsey Stevenson, a University of Michigan economist. “He wanted to understand how people were doing, how people were feeling.”
Jason Furman, a Harvard economist who worked with Mr. Krueger on the Obama economic team and succeeded him as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said Mr. Krueger had been the rare economist who was outstanding at both research and public policy. He sometimes combined the two, to persuasive effect.
In the midst of the Great Recession, Mr. Obama was weighing whether to propose a tax credit for companies that hired new workers, though he was skeptical of the idea, Mr. Furman said, because several businesses had told him that it would not sway their hiring decisions.
Mr. Krueger, instead of doing a survey of research on such tax credits, used Princeton’s survey group to poll small businesses on questions relating to job creation. He then used the results to argue that the credit would subsidize job creation in a cost-effective way — even if many businesses ignored it.
“I don’t think Alan knew the answer before he did the survey,” Mr. Furman said. “He found out the answer from the survey. He didn’t content himself with what was out there in the literature already.”
Mr. Obama wound up embracing the proposal but could not get it through Congress.
Mr. Krueger served in Democratic administrations, and his research tended to support liberal causes. But Ms. Stevenson noted that his work on occupational licensing had been influential among conservatives as well. And he was willing to reach conclusions that did not align with his policy preferences; in one such instance, his research found that poverty did not cause terrorism.
His survivors include his wife, Lisa Simon Krueger, and his children, Ben and Sydney. A complete list of survivors was not immediately available.
Mr. Krueger was a contributor to the Economic Scene column and the Economix blog in The New York Times.
Colleagues at Princeton recalled Mr. Krueger as having a nearly boundless curiosity. Mr. Card, a frequent collaborator early in their careers, said Mr. Krueger used to pore through code books of survey questions looking for potential research questions.
“He had headlights that went a lot further in the dark than anybody else,” Mr. Card said.
LONDON — British police say four men from Sri Lanka have been arrested on suspicion of belonging to a banned extremist organization.
Police said Friday night they are suspected of violating the Terrorism Act.
The four men are being questioned at a police station in Bedfordshire northeast of London.
Police say the men arrived on an international flight at Luton Airport Wednesday night.
The men have not been identified and have not been charged. Police say the investigation is continuing.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
President Trump stopped short of announcing a final trade deal with China, saying in an Oval Office meeting with the Chinese delegation that it may take another four weeks or more to secure an “epic” agreement.
Before the meeting, Mr. Trump said that talks with China were “going very well” and that the two countries were headed toward an agreement that might be “the biggest deal ever made.” But there was no announcement, as had been hinted, of a meeting with President Xi Jinping. 
U.S. backdrop: President Trump has been trying to push forward on his agenda items, asserting that the special counsel’s report fully exonerated him. But our reporters have found that some of Robert Mueller’s investigators see their report as more damaging for Mr. Trump than Attorney General William Barr indicated.
The crew of the Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max 8 that crashed last month repeatedly followed the emergency procedures recommended by Boeing, the plane’s manufacturer, Ethiopia’s transportation minister said. He was explaining investigators’ initial findings about the accident.
The minister, Dagmawit Moges, said the plane had experienced “repetitive, uncommanded aircraft nose-down conditions,” similar to those involving another Max 8 in a crash in Indonesia last year.
Impact: The findings are likely to heighten scrutiny of the 737 Max, Boeing’s top-selling jet. Airlines worldwide have grounded their 737 Max fleets.
Kashgar, the storied city of ancient trade routes, lies in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang. A crackdown is underway there on ethnic minority groups — Uighurs, Kazakhs, Tajiks — who outnumber the otherwise dominant Han Chinese.
The government’s cameras are everywhere, and the surveillance is as much about intimidation as monitoring. Three of our correspondents explored the city, taking care not to put residents at risk of detention.
Voices: “In China, there are no whys,” a police officer told our reporter after deleting a photograph of a camel from his phone.
The country’s military authorities are targeting a popular pro-democracy party, accusing its leader of causing disorder that could lead to rebellion.
Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, a billionaire who leads the Future Forward Party, has been ordered to submit to the police for questioning. He faces up to seven years in prison in the case, which was first opened four years ago.
Reaction: Critics say the summons is the latest attempt by the military to consolidate power. 
At the polls: In parliamentary elections last week, Future Forward and two other opposition parties that campaigned for a return to democracy ended up splitting 51 percent of the vote, leaving the military-backed party, Palang Pracharat, in first place with just 24 percent of the vote, according to preliminary results. 
Background: After seizing control in a 2014 coup, the junta put in place a new Constitution and rigged the country’s electoral system to give itself huge political advantages. 
The opposition Congress party has put out the first concrete policy proposal of the campaign. A caution: Trying to impose a Western prism on the elections could lead you astray.
The Congress “manifesto” covers issues from social to environmental. One standout: a minimum income plan that would guarantee 72,000 rupees a year (about $1,000) to India’s poorest 20 percent.
Sounds like a classic left-wing response to five years of market deregulation and austerity under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, right?
Wrong. Sure, in 2014, Mr. Modi campaigned on a promise to help business and cut back bloated government, but he rolled out his own version of a handout in February: a payment of 6,000 rupees (about $85) for farmers and other sweeteners.
“When it comes to the economy” in India, observed Milan Vaishnav, a South Asia expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “almost all parties are clustered around the center left.”
With so many Indians still relatively poor, he said, swinging too far toward fiscal conservatism would be political suicide.
So if and when the B.J.P. puts out its own policy proposal, the economic ideas may not be all that different from the Congress party’s. — Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Send us feedback or questions here.
New Zealand: The Australian man accused of attacking two mosques in Christchurch will be in court today to be charged with 50 counts of murder, the police said. 
Australia: The country passed sweeping legislation that includes the penalty of jail time for executives of social media companies if they fail to rapidly remove “abhorrent violent material” from their platforms.
Algeria: President Abdelaziz Bouteflika was forced from power this week after 20 years. We look at what happens next.
Mar-a-Lago: The arrest of a Chinese woman carrying a malware-laced device exposed porous security at President Trump’s Florida resort.
Carlos Ghosn: The embattled former Nissan executive was arrested for a fourth time in Tokyo over new accusations of misusing company funds. In an interview, his wife, Carole, said she was “treated like a terrorist.” 
Snapshot: S.N. Goenka, above, gave up life as a successful Burmese businessman in 1969 to teach meditation in India, and played a significant role in the explosion of interest in meditation. He’s the latest entry in our Overlooked series, about people who didn’t receive obituaries in The Times when they died.
Animal rescue: Almost 100 captive whales were seized by the Russian government in the Far East before they could be exported to Chinese marine parks.
Instagram influencers: A club owner in the Philippines became a local hero after he pushed back at the growing number of travelers claiming large followings on social media and asking for free food, drinks and lodging.
What we’re reading: This short story in The New Yorker, recommended by Gillian Wong, our editor specializing in China coverage. She writes: “Te-Ping Chen, a Wall Street Journal reporter until recently based in Beijing, imagines a pair of Chinese twins in the internet era whose lives take them in vastly different directions.”
Cook: End the week with lemon cream cheese cookies.
Listen: “Downhill Lullaby,” the first original song Sky Ferreira has released since 2013, veers sharply away from the armor-clad pop that filled her first album, our critic writes.
Read: The movie has been rocking on Netflix, now Mötley Crüe’s “The Dirt” appears on our paperback nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists.
Watch: King Hu directs Angela Mao in the 1984 film “The Fate of Lee Khan.” It’s a Critic’s Pick. 
Smarter Living: Intending to part ways with your laptop, tablet or cellphone? Provide them a second life: Sell them online, give them to people you know or donate them to nonprofits. If they’re too old to reuse, send them to a smelter to be reclaimed by “urban mining” — they’re often made of copper, silver, gold and lithium.
Also, if you don’t feel like you have the time to read, try some bite-sized books.
The Times has been covering the Chinese government’s internment of hundreds of thousands — perhaps a million or more — of Uighurs and other Muslims in the western region of Xinjiang. We asked Chris Buckley, one of the reporters on the story, to explain the leadership’s rationale. 
The cost of internal strife is a major concern to China’s leaders, who have only to look to the Taiping Rebellion of the 1850s. That internal war, which claimed 20 million or more lives, remains one of the world’s bloodiest.
The mass internments in Xinjiang reflect the leadership’s view that the religion and culture of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are widely “infected” by antigovernment sentiments that could foment unrest and terrorism.
Uighurs — a Turkic people — have had an uneasy, sometimes violent, relationship with the Chinese Communist authorities since 1949.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the government allowed more space for the Uighurs’ language and customs. But policies became increasingly hard line, especially after ethnic rioting erupted in 2009, killing at least 200 people. In 2014, more than 30 people were killed in an attack by Uighurs in southwest China. There were many smaller-scale attacks as well.
BAGHDAD — From financing the expansion of the vast courtyards that lead into the Shiite shrines of the holy city of Najaf, to ensuring that a Tehran-friendly candidate gets the job of interior minister, Iran’s role in Iraq keeps growing.
President Hassan Rouhani of Iran arrived in Baghdad on Monday for a visit to a place that his country has shaped in ways big and small over the past several years. Iran was the real winner of last year’s parliamentary elections in Iraq: The parties linked to the paramilitary Popular Mobilization Forces, most of them with ties to Tehran, emerged as the kingmakers.
“Iran is a small body with a big brain, and the United States is a big body with a small brain,” said Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, a Sunni Muslim who was a former speaker of the Iraqi Parliament, trying to explain how Iran seemed to have gained the upper hand in Iraq.
Adnan al-Zurfi, a Shiite member of the Iraqi Parliament who has lived in the United States, put it succinctly.
“There is no American presence in Iraq, only a military presence,” he said. By contrast, Iran has insinuated itself into Iraqi political life and the military, and now seeks to expand economically and culturally, he said.
Cementing its dominance in Iraq is a piece with Iran’s regional ambitions, which aim to secure a route to the Mediterranean through friendly countries, in part so it can ship arms and support to Hezbollah in Lebanon, continue assisting President Bashar Assad’s military in Syria and threaten Israel.
Now that Iran has expanded the Shiite armed groups into a political force, much as they have done with Hezbollah in Lebanon, Tehran’s new priority is to increase economic ties with Iraq to offset American sanctions.
Previewing Mr. Rouhani’s visit, the Iranian ambassador to Iraq, Iraj Masjedi, said on Saturday that Iran “considers Iraq the first destination for Iranian goods” and wants to outstrip Turkey and China as one of Iraq’s top trade partners.
He said that there would be 40 trade fairs in Iraq in the coming year and that Mr. Rouhani would discuss plans to extend a railroad from Kermanshah, in Iran, to the Iraqi city of Basra. Iraq and Iran are also set to agree on new visa rules to make it easier for Iranian businessmen to travel to Iraq, the ambassador said.
Although Iran already has extensive economic ties in Iraq — it provides natural gas, processed petroleum products and about 20 percent of Iraq’s electricity, as well as some of its fiber optic cables — it wants to expand the relationship. Mr. Rouhani said at a recent news conference that his goal was to see trade with Iraq increase to $20 billion annually, from $12 billion.
The push to bolster Iranian trade when the country is under American sanctions leaves Iraq caught in a vise between Washington, whose military and reconnaissance resources it still needs, and Tehran, which has also provided crucial military support. Iraq has a temporary exemption from the sanctions so that it can continue to buy some Iranian products including electric power and natural gas.
Iran has also gained leverage over many factions in the Iraqi political system, making it hard for Iraqi politicians to turn away from Iran’s demands, said Joost Hiltermann, the head of the Middle East and North Africa division of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group.
“The Iraqis know that Iran is their neighbor, they will always be neighbors,” Mr. Hiltermann said.
Although it will be difficult and the United States will push back, the Iraqis will try to accommodate the Iranians’ demands, he said.
“They need to keep good relations with Iran and they can’t afford to anger Iran because Iran has a huge spoiling capacity,” Mr. Hiltermann added, referring to Tehran’s ability to use its political and military power to undermine the fragile Iraqi government.
Iran is overwhelmingly Shiite Persian, while Iraq is majority Shiite Arab, with a sizable Sunni Arab minority, along with Kurds, Turkmen, and Christians.
Recently Iran has made a point of reaching out to Sunni Muslims, a tack it had not taken so actively in the past, in an effort to gain support and to invest itself in Iraq’s heterogenous population.
Members of the Iraqi Parliament, including some who are Sunni Muslim, describe a steady stream of invitations to conferences in Tehran, meetings with visiting Iranian officials and attention to Iraq’s concerns.
Iran also makes a point of sending senior officials to Iraq on a regular basis to discuss potential business ties. In the past three months, there have been visits by Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif; its oil minister; and its energy minister.
Iraqis have responded in kind. The president, Barham Salih, went to Tehran to discuss how to continue close economic links despite the American sanctions.
Less than a week ago, the speaker of Iraq’s Parliament, Muhammad al-Halbousi, a Sunni, was in Tehran to discuss the two countries’ mutual interests. Iraq’s culture minister, Abdulameer al-Hamdani, was in the Iranian capital recently to discuss collaboration on archaeological projects.
But that is little comfort to many Sunnis who fear that when fortunes turn, Iran favors the Shiites. Some Shiites who view themselves as Arab as much as Shiite are also concerned that Tehran is pushing to make Iraq more like Iran.
In that line of thinking, although the Iranians have reached out, the effort seems intended more to ensure that Sunnis are also in Iran’s ambit than to be inclusive.
Iran “is pulling Iraq away from its Arab homeland and identity,” said Ayatollah Sheikh Fadhil al-Badairi, one of the Iraqi Shiite marja, or religious leadership, in Najaf.
And that undermines Iraq’s “special character,” he said, which is Arab and religiously diverse.
That does not dim the importance of the role Iran played when the Islamic State overran northern Iraq. The Iranians moved quickly to help Iraq, creating and expanding the paramilitary forces made up of Shiite militias that came to be known as the Popular Mobilization Forces. Those efforts burnished Iran’s status in Iraq.
Today, there are more than 20 different paramilitary groups, and although they all come under the umbrella of the Popular Mobilization Forces, they vary in the depth of their ties to Iran.
More recently, Iran encouraged the creation of a Sunni version of those forces in Sunni-majority areas of Iraq that were overrun by the Islamic State.
Initially, Iran helped provide weapons and training to many of the paramilitary forces, but it did not have the money to field a large new force inside Iraq long term. Now, those forces are funded by the Iraqi government and, technically, are under its control.
But some of the paramilitary groups are viewed as all but directly following orders from Iran, making them a parallel armed force that the Iraqi government cannot entirely control. At least two of them, Kata’ib Hezbollah and Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba, are labeled foreign terrorist organizations by the State Department.
Even in Najaf, the intellectual center of Iraqi Shiism and the home of the country’s most revered ayatollah, Ali al-Sistani, the Iranians have staked out ground. They raised the profile of the representative in Najaf of Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, enabling the representative to attract more of a following.
Najaf is a center of Shiite studies where senior religious figures have traditionally viewed religion and government as separate realms. In Iranian Shiism, the senior religious leader makes political decisions.
Iran now appears to be trying to extend its influence over the Iraqi Shiite religious leaders, according to Ayatollah al-Badairi of the religious leadership in Najaf.
“They are attempting to strengthen the influence of the Iranian marjiya and weakening the others,” said Ayatollah al-Badairi, who, like some other Shiite figures, says he has been angered that Iran meddles in Iraqi politics but does not invest in Iraq.
What Tehran has principally done is win contracts from Baghdad, meaning that Iranians are getting paid by Iraq rather than investing and creating jobs, said Mr. Zurfi, the Iraqi member of Parliament, who has a similar critique of the Americans.
Now Iran is pushing for even more commerce, in large part to buffer itself from the American sanctions that President Trump announced he was reinstating when he pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal, several senior Iraqi politicians said.
Since then, the value of Iran’s currency, the rial, has tumbled, hopes for foreign investment have been dashed and the market for Iranian oil drastically cut.
“Iran wants Iraq to be a market for Iranian goods,” said Karim al-Nuri, a senior leader in the Badr Organization, one of the oldest of the Shiite paramilitary groups in Iraq. “It has no other way to reduce the impact of the sanctions.”
What do we do with Westerners who fought on behalf of, or at least traveled to and joined, the Islamic State? Some like Hoda Muthana, who left college in Alabama to join the Islamic State in Syria, have expressed the desire to return to their native country.
As the Islamic State loses its last safe havens in eastern Syria and policymakers on both sides of the Atlantic confront the question of what to do with the Western “foreign fighters,” I thought I could add my voice and unique experiences to the discussion.
I was the first American foreign fighter for Al Qaeda after Sept. 11. I was captured in Pakistan, turned over to United States law enforcement and brought back to New York.
I served time for my actions and have tried to make amends. Others can do the same and contribute to our society and the fight against Islamic radicals — and giving them that opportunity can set a powerful example for our allies and for vulnerable people across the world. 
Raised on Long Island and a convert to Islam, I traveled to Pakistan and Afghanistan in the fall of 2007 at age 24 because I was opposed to America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and went to defend Muslim lands from the West. It gave me a purpose, and my intention was to fight and die a martyr’s death on the battlefield as a brave Muslim warrior.
After joining and fighting on behalf of some local fighting groups against American forces, I ultimately joined Al Qaeda. I was captured by Pakistani authorities in 2008 in Peshawar after training for months at Al Qaeda camps and participating in some military actions; I was subsequently turned over to American law enforcement and brought back to New York.
Back in America, I ultimately made the decision to turn on my former fellow jihadists and help the United States fix, find and finish Al Qaeda leadership in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I also provided actionable intelligence to more than a dozen coalition partners. Though the federal judge who sentenced me described my cooperation as “remarkable,” I spent more than eight and a half years in federal prison; surprisingly, I can now say I am a better person because of it.
This is where I think I can provide some advice. According to data tracked by the George Washington University Program on Extremism, as few as 59 Americans are known to have traveled to Syria to join the Islamic State. Moreover, President Trump has said, “The United States is asking Britain, France, Germany and other European allies to take back over 800 ISIS fighters that we captured in Syria and put them on trial.”
I can say with confidence that arrest, full cooperation, contrition and the promise of rehabilitation can be a viable pathway forward for those Western foreign fighters who do not have “blood on their hands” — didn’t kill any coalition forces overseas — and are willing to admit they made mistakes and are ready to atone for them in prison.
I went before the American judicial system and accepted my guilt when it came to the terrorism charges (conspiracy to murder United States nationals, providing material support to Al Qaeda and providing expert advice and assistance) against me. I also expressed my deepest apologies to the court and said that I would like “to turn a bad thing into a good thing.”
There are citizens from the United States, Britain, Germany and France, men and women, who joined the Islamic State because of ideological fervor, the promise of adventure, the opportunity to create an Islamic utopia and a perceived religious obligation. It may be hard to see it this way, but they can be a strategic asset for the United States and our European partners.
First, like me, they may have had an “insider view” and thus intelligence on how the Islamic State works and was organized, and maybe even leads on the whereabouts of its leadership. Second, these Westerners can provide insights on how they became radicalized and turned to extremism. And third, after they have done time in prison, thought about their decisions and made some peace with themselves about the consequences, they might even be, like me, willing to speak to vulnerable youth and impart to them their hard-earned wisdom.
These former “terrorists” will have the legacy as volunteers who “went there and did it” and will be able to vouch that the experience of joining the caliphate wasn’t like the vision presented in slick videos on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. Instead, joining a Sunni jihadist group overseas is a decision that you will have to live with for the rest of your life or will most likely be a quick trip with a dead end.
But they will need some hope that there is life after terrorism. My life is good evidence that there is: Approximately a year ago, coming out of prison, I was on food stamps and unemployed. I can now report that not only am I no longer on food stamps, but I have a job and am thriving in the manufacturing industry.
Moreover, I now speak to small audiences about my experiences as a former Al Qaeda member with the hope of better informing intelligence and law enforcement officials and analysts about what led me down this pathway, as well as how I deradicalized and became a contributing member of American society.
The United States does not have any type of prison rehabilitation and re-entry program to prepare “formers” for life afterward with mental health services, vocational training or educational programs, but maybe I, and the few others like me who have changed our lives, can be role models for these foreign fighters.
The United States can serve as an example for its allies — bring back the Americans who joined the Islamic State and let the American legal system do its work. After they serve the appropriate penalty under law for their actions, the country might even end up with a new counterterrorism resource.
LONDON — The head of Iran's Revolutionary Guards dismissed Washington's designation of the elite force as a terrorist organization and said on Tuesday the Guards would increase their military capabilities. 
"This U.S. move was quite laughable since the Revolutionary Guards are in people's hearts ... The Revolutionary Guards will increase its defensive and offensive capabilities in coming year," commander Mohammad Ali Jafari was quoted as saying by the state broadcaster.
 (Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Catherine Evans)
ISTANBUL — Four Turkish soldiers and 20 armed assailants were killed on Friday in clashes between the military and the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) near the border with Iraq, Turkey's defense ministry and military said. 
A military base was attacked overnight in the mountainous Cukurca district of Turkey's southeastern province of Hakkari, prompting the military to respond with an air operation, news agencies and the ministry said on Saturday.
The Turkish military said "at least 20 terrorists were neutralized" as a result, and it held a ceremony for the dead soldiers on Saturday, according to state-run Anadolu news agency. Hulusi Akar, the defense minister, was to attend. 
The ministry said six other soldiers were wounded in the clashes. "Terrorists are under intense fire with the air operation and fire support vehicles in the region," it said.
The PKK, which has waged an insurgency for autonomy in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast since 1984, is deemed a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and the European Union.
"Turkey is determined to continue its fight against terrorists and their supporters by making no compromises," Mustafa Sentop, the speaker of Turkey's parliament, was quoted as saying by Anadolu. 
 (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Alison Williams, William Maclean)
BEIRUT — Lebanon's Hezbollah raised the prospect of retaliation by Iran and its allies over U.S. sanctions, saying on Wednesday that all options were on the table were Washington to take steps that "threaten our nation".
Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, leader of the heavily armed Iranian-backed Shi'ite group, said the United States' move this week to designate Iran's Revolutionary Guards as a terrorist organization reflected a failure of U.S. policy in the Middle East.
Iran and its allies, which include Hezbollah, had so far made do with condemnation in response to the U.S. sanctions, said Nasrallah, before adding that this was "not a permanent and fixed policy".
"There are measures which, if taken by the Americans ... who said they will remain without response?" he said in a televised speech delivered to an event for Hezbollah's wounded fighters.
"There will be an appropriate response for sure," he said. Iran and its allies held "many strong cards", he added.
Hezbollah was founded by the Revolutionary Guards in 1982 and has long been designated as a terrorist group by the United States. U.S. President Donald Trump's administration has tightened sanctions against Hezbollah as part of its wider regional policy to counter Iran.
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday that Trump would continue to increase pressure on Iran.
 (Reporting by Beirut bureau; Editing by Giles Elgood)
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Monday that he was designating a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time that the United States has named part of another nation’s government as that type of official threat.
The designation imposes wide-ranging economic and travel sanctions on the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as well as organizations, companies and individuals with ties to it. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards carry out operations across the Middle East, train Arab Shiite militias and oversee businesses in Iran.
Monday’s designation “will significantly expand the scope and scale of our maximum pressure on the Iranian regime,” Mr. Trump said in a statement.
The designation was opposed by some top Trump administration national security officials who said it could incite retaliation by Tehran against American troops and intelligence officers. It takes effect April 15, but was announced Monday in what American officials described as a chaotic and rushed process.
In Baghdad, where some Iraqi officials have close ties to Iran, American officials said they had been given no guidance on how to enforce the policy.
The timing of Mr. Trump’s announcement appeared aimed at giving Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel a final boost in a tight re-election campaign before a vote on Tuesday. Mr. Netanyahu and Trump administration officials have said Iran is the greatest threat to Israel, and Mr. Netanyahu immediately thanked Mr. Trump in a Twitter post.
Mr. Netanyahu has repeatedly raised the specter of the Iranian threat to Israel and tried to reinforce the notion that his close ties to Mr. Trump strengthen Israeli security.
In thanking Mr. Trump on Twitter, Mr. Netanyahu took credit for the idea of the terrorism designation. “Once again you are keeping the world safe from Iran aggression and terrorism,” Mr. Netanyahu wrote in English, while writing in a separate tweet in Hebrew, “Thank you for accepting another important request of mine.”
Last month, in an effort to bolster Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Trump recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights; the United Nations considers it occupied territory.
After Mr. Trump’s announcement, Iran’s Supreme National Security Council said it was designating as a terrorist organization the United States Central Command, which oversees American military operations in the Middle East.
Iraqi leaders had no immediate reaction, although Karim al-Nuri, a senior figure in the Badr Organization, an influential Iraqi Shiite militia, said there may not be much direct effect.
“But it will put more pressure on Iraq” from Tehran to grow closer to Iran, he said.
Some American officials said the broad designation potentially covers 11 million members of the Iranian group and affiliated organizations, including the large Basij volunteer militia.
In its statement about the new designation, the State Department sharply criticized the Quds Force, an elite unit of the Revolutionary Guards led by Qassim Suleimani. That unit and Mr. Suleimani are already under sanctions from lesser terrorism designations.
Top American intelligence and military officials, including Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, opposed Mr. Trump’s action, which they argued would allow Iranian leaders to justify operations against Americans overseas, especially Special Operations units and paramilitary units working under the C.I.A.
But Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, pushed for it, a Trump administration official said. The fighting among the senior administration officials intensified after The New York Times disclosed the pending designation last month.
The final decision belonged to Mr. Pompeo because the State Department controls the list of designated terrorist organizations.
At the height of the Iraq war in the mid-2000s, Iranian military officials and partners helped train Iraqi Shiite militias to fight American troops. The Defense Department says at least 603 American personnel were killed in Iraq by Iran-backed fighters — 17 percent of all Americans killed in hostile action there.
When the Islamic State, a radical Sunni group, took over large parts of Iraq and Syria in 2014, the Quds Force helped train Iraqi Shiite militias to retake the territory. The American military also took part in the campaign, meaning the Americans and Iranians were on the same side.
Many Iraqi officials are opposed to the new terrorist designation, as it could impose travel limits and economic sanctions on some lawmakers in the Shiite-led government and other Iraqis who have ties to Iranian officials.
The new pressure from the Americans also could fuel a popular proposal among Iraqi lawmakers to limit the movements and actions of some 5,000 American troops based in Iraq.
In recent days, State Department officials had asked Mr. Pompeo to delay any announcement, arguing that the designation could have unintended consequences for unrelated countries, a government official said. But Mr. Pompeo dismissed their concerns.
Under a provision of the USA Patriot Act, low-level officials are empowered to deny entry to foreigners who are associated with an organization that the officials decide meet broad standards for terrorism — even when the United States government has not formally applied a terrorism label to that group.
Until now, American officials had never interpreted laws as permitting them to deem a government entity a terrorist organization.
The Trump administration’s decision to breach that constraint with the Iranian group raises the question of whether other government intelligence services that use violence — including those of Israel, Pakistan and Russia — also now meet that standard. If so, should American officials deny visas to people who work with those agencies? State Department officials say the rushed announcement meant such policy details have not been worked out.
The George W. Bush administration considered a range of tough actions on Iran during the Iraq war, but held back.
“The potential blowback vastly outweighs the benefits,” said Jeffrey Prescott, a senior Middle East director under President Barack Obama.
Wendy R. Sherman, a former top State Department official, said the Obama administration considered designating the Revolutionary Guards a foreign terrorist organization, but decided against it because there would be no practical payoff given the risks to Americans and the fact the group was already under other sanctions.
“By designating a foreign military as a foreign terrorist organization, we were putting our troops at risk, particularly our troops in Iraq, next door to Iran,” she said.
The Revolutionary Guards oversaw the previous Iranian nuclear program, and some of the top officers were placed under United States and United Nations sanctions.
The Obama administration entered into a nuclear deal with Tehran and world powers in 2015. Mr. Trump withdrew the United States from that agreement last year in the start of a crackdown against Iran.
There are signs that Trump-era sanctions on Iran are undermining its budget for foreign military activities, meaning less money for Hezbollah and other Iranian allies. The new terrorism designation could expand on this by further undermining the Revolutionary Guards’ finances.
Like “United 93,” “Hotel Mumbai” begins from the uncomfortable premise of turning an actual terrorist incident into material for a dramatized suspense feature. In November 2008, 10 men unleashed gunfire and grenade assaults across Mumbai, killing more than 160 people.
The film, inspired by a documentary, “Surviving Mumbai,” relays these events from the vantage points of a sprawling international ensemble. The characters, many of them composites, are the guests and staff members of the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower Hotel, one of two luxury hotels the terrorists targeted, and where more than 30 died during the siege.
An affluent couple (Nazanin Boniadi and Armie Hammer) leave their newborn upstairs with the nanny (Tilda Cobham-Hervey) to enjoy their dinner date in the hotel restaurant. A high-rolling Russian (Jason Isaacs) plans to spend the evening cavorting with local escorts. The heroic hotel employees include the head chef (Anupam Kher) and a Sikh waiter (Dev Patel) who shows up to work that day without proper footwear but begs to stay, needing the shift.
Anthony Maras, making his first feature, interweaves these threads with precision and clarity, conveying an impressive sense of the hotel layout, the confusion of the circumstances and the visceral fear of hiding from the gunmen. (The opulent hotel was re-created in both Mumbai and Adelaide, Australia.)
But the more involving “Hotel Mumbai” plays in the moment, the queasier it seems in retrospect. It reduces the randomness of real-life bloodshed to the slick thrills of a popcorn movie. And after the mosque attacks in Christchurch, which led the film’s distributor in New Zealand to suspend the movie’s release there, its savagery is especially difficult to take.
Last month, an aid worker in Myanmar named Khon Ja flipped through her Facebook feed and noticed something was missing. Something important.
A page run by a rebel group that controls a stretch of jungle-covered territory near China’s border, known as the Ta’ang National Liberation Army, had disappeared.
Its reports on the location and severity of fighting no longer appeared on Facebook. Neither did its posts on the welfare of civilians under its control.
Ms. Khon Ja, who works to protect civilians from the ravages of Myanmar’s decades-long civil war, had come to rely on the Facebook page, which might reveal, say, battle lines edging toward a village.
“Sometimes we need to evacuate people,” she said. Other times, her team could at least warn local families to take cover, and send money for blankets and medicine.
Reporters are largely blocked from conflict areas in Myanmar, and government accounts are considered unreliable. The rebels’ accounts, too, had to be read with a skeptical eye, but did offer valuable, real-time updates of what was happening on the ground.
Like many in Myanmar, the rebels communicated with the public largely through Facebook — until the social network said no more.
When Ms. Khon Ja tried to find out why the Ta’ang National Liberation Army had gone silent, she learned that it was among four rebel groups in Myanmar that Facebook had decided to ban. Not only did it take down a host of pages, but it also prohibited users from posting words of praise or support for the rebels.
“We don’t want the platform to be used to normalize or further the goals of these groups,” said Rafael Frankel, Facebook’s policy director for Southeast Asia.
Mr. Frankel cited reports that the guerrillas had attacked civilians, backed up by independent rights groups, and said removing their posts was meant to curb their ability to organize or encourage violence.
The bans are the latest sign of Facebook’s growing power in many countries, where its control over the flow of information and public discourse makes it akin to national broadcaster, public utility and political regulator all rolled into one.
And they are the latest test of Facebook’s ability to wield that power responsibly.
But Facebook’s intervention has brought unintended consequences that have troubled humanitarian groups and conflict experts in Myanmar.
The bans, they say, have swept up pages crucial for protecting some of the country’s most vulnerable communities. And some worry that they will further tilt control of information about the conflict toward the military, which rights groups consider to be guilty of far graver atrocities than the rebels.
Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, sent a letter to Facebook saying he was “deeply troubled” by the bans. He called the groups’ Facebook presence “important to broader efforts at a lasting peace” and warned that their removal would disrupt efforts by humanitarian groups and by international conflict observers, “including the United States.”
Ms. Khon Ja, crediting the platform’s reach in Myanmar’s conflict zones with helping to save lives, said, “Facebook is very important for us.” Without pages like that of the Ta’ang rebels, she worried, it could become harder to shield civilians from violence.
“By the time that real fighting occurs, it’s very difficult to evacuate,” she said. “We have to wait until everything finishes, and we lose a lot.”
Facebook’s ubiquity has made it an essential tool for liberation movements and terrorist groups the world over. But the line between those two is not always clear. Even governments and courts struggle with the unenviable task of determining which is which.
Facebook’s growth-obsessed business model, which brought in tens of billions of dollars in revenue last year, means the company increasingly grapples with that question, too, as it dominates new markets, many of which are politically volatile.
“The militarization of Facebook,” said Nicola Williams, an analyst at the Asia Foundation, “will continue to be an ethical and regulatory issue for Facebook.”
Stakes are high in many countries, where nascent democracies and fragile conflicts hang in the balance, but especially in Myanmar. The military there has been accused of hair-raising atrocities against minorities, including genocide against ethnic Rohingya. After decades of conflict and suspicion, separating hero from villain is rarely easy.
Myanmar’s rebel groups, many of which purport to represent one of the country’s persecuted ethnic minorities, pose an especially difficult case.
Many are bands of insurgents who extort money from civilians and conscript them. Sometimes they kill them.
But some act as de facto governments in the territories they control. To their supporters, they are “leaders of their ethnic minority’s effort to achieve greater recognition and rights,” according to a 2017 Amnesty International report, as well as “protectors from the Myanmar Army,” which has been credibly accused of genocide.
Facebook cannot always separate out those roles.
In imposing the bans, Facebook went against a report that the company itself commissioned last year on its human rights impact in Myanmar. The report, assembled by the consulting firm BSR, warned that banning armed ethnic groups could censor “legitimate expressions of opposition or dissent” as well as “content that is intended to expose human rights violations, rather than encourage them.”
Facebook said that it broke with the report’s recommendations because the company determined that removing the groups outright would most effectively curb violence. Mr. Frankel said the ultimate goal was “making our platform safe.”
Facebook also briefly shuttered the official page of rebel groups’ peace negotiators. Amid a backlash from activists, who warned that the decision would disrupt peace talks, the company reinstated the page.
Some unintended consequences may be difficult to avoid.
Among the four groups Facebook banned last month was the Arakan Army, a particularly vicious rebel outfit. The social network moved against the rebels after they attacked a string of police stations.
But Arakan Army officers had used Facebook’s messenger service to coordinate with aid groups, a now-closed line of communication that Ms. Khon Ja called crucial for steps like reuniting former child soldiers with their parents.
But of all the pages Facebook removed, none alarmed activists as much as the closing of Laiza TV. It is mostly known as a radio station and video-filled Facebook page, both widely followed in Myanmar’s Kachin State.
Many members of the Kachin ethnic minority support the Kachin Independence Army, and Laiza tends to do so, also. Facebook said that this was why it removed the page.
But Laiza also conveyed day-to-day news from the war-torn region, where government accounts are unreliable and most media cannot go.
Gum San Nsang, the president of the Kachin Alliance, a diaspora group based in Washington, said that the Facebook ban had cut off information about the tens of thousands of Kachin who, as a result of the fighting, live in camps and rely on groups abroad for help.
“We don’t know what’s happening, we don’t know the latest on displaced people, we don’t even know the weather,” he said, referring to the tendency of floods or landslides to displace vulnerable communities. “Facebook is the only thing we have to keep in touch.”
A battle or disease outbreak might prompt a torrent of donations, but only if the news can get out. Outlets like Laiza rely on Facebook because it is the only online tool that is both widely available and cannot easily be hacked by the government.
Ashley South, a researcher who studies Myanmar’s conflicts, said Facebook’s bans had cut off thousands of civilians from a diaspora that “has allowed this community to survive.”
“I was really appalled when I read the news about Facebook’s ban,” Mr. South said. “I’m quite angry about it.”
The page’s popularity also made it a hub for notices about missing persons or families split apart in the fighting. The far more popular radio station remains online, but activists said that many reunions might not have been possible without the Facebook page.
Naw Bu, Laiza’s head, said Facebook had given him no advance notice or explanation. He said his outlet was not affiliated with the rebels. And its reports, he said, provided important information about the region, including its growing measles problem.
“The impact only goes to innocent people,” Mr. Naw Bu said. “It’s sad.”
The Chinese government has drawn wide international condemnation for its harsh crackdown on ethnic Muslims in its western region, including holding as many as a million of them in detention camps. 
Now, documents and interviews show that the authorities are also using a vast, secret system of advanced facial recognition technology to track and control the Uighurs, a largely Muslim minority. It is the first known example of a government intentionally using artificial intelligence for racial profiling, experts said.
The facial recognition technology, which is integrated into China’s rapidly expanding networks of surveillance cameras, looks exclusively for Uighurs based on their appearance and keeps records of their comings and goings for search and review. The practice makes China a pioneer in applying next-generation technology to watch its people, potentially ushering in a new era of automated racism.
The technology and its use to keep tabs on China’s 11 million Uighurs were described by five people with direct knowledge of the systems, who requested anonymity because they feared retribution. The New York Times also reviewed databases used by the police, government procurement documents and advertising materials distributed by the A.I. companies that make the systems. 
Chinese authorities already maintain a vast surveillance net, including tracking people’s DNA, in the western region of Xinjiang, which many Uighurs call home. But the scope of the new systems, previously unreported, extends that monitoring into many other corners of the country. 
The police are now using facial recognition technology to target Uighurs in wealthy eastern cities like Hangzhou and Wenzhou and across the coastal province of Fujian, said two of the people. Law enforcement in the central Chinese city of Sanmenxia, along the Yellow River, ran a system that over the course of a month this year screened whether residents were Uighurs 500,000 times. 
Police documents show demand for such capabilities is spreading. Almost two dozen police departments in 16 different provinces and regions across China sought such technology beginning in 2018, according to procurement documents. Law enforcement from the central province of Shaanxi, for example, aimed to acquire a smart camera system last year that “should support facial recognition to identify Uighur/non-Uighur attributes.”
Some police departments and technology companies described the practice as “minority identification,” though three of the people said that phrase was a euphemism for a tool that sought to identify Uighurs exclusively. Uighurs often look distinct from China’s majority Han population, more closely resembling people from Central Asia. Such differences make it easier for software to single them out.
For decades, democracies have had a near monopoly on cutting-edge technology. Today, a new generation of start-ups catering to Beijing’s authoritarian needs are beginning to set the tone for emerging technologies like artificial intelligence. Similar tools could automate biases based on skin color and ethnicity elsewhere.
“Take the most risky application of this technology, and chances are good someone is going to try it,” said Clare Garvie, an associate at the Center on Privacy and Technology at Georgetown Law. “If you make a technology that can classify people by an ethnicity, someone will use it to repress that ethnicity.”
From a technology standpoint, using algorithms to label people based on race or ethnicity has become relatively easy. Companies like I.B.M. advertise software that can sort people into broad groups. 
But China has broken new ground by identifying one ethnic group for law enforcement purposes. One Chinese start-up, CloudWalk, outlined a sample experience in marketing its own surveillance systems. The technology, it said, could recognize “sensitive groups of people.” 
“If originally one Uighur lives in a neighborhood, and within 20 days six Uighurs appear,” it said on its website, “it immediately sends alarms” to law enforcement.
In practice, the systems are imperfect, two of the people said. Often, their accuracy depends on environmental factors like lighting and the positioning of cameras.
In the United States and Europe, the debate in the artificial intelligence community has focused on the unconscious biases of those designing the technology. Recent tests showed facial recognition systems made by companies like I.B.M. and Amazon were less accurate at identifying the features of darker-skinned people.
China’s efforts raise starker issues. While facial recognition technology uses aspects like skin tone and face shapes to sort images in photos or videos, it must be told by humans to categorize people based on social definitions of race or ethnicity. Chinese police, with the help of the start-ups, have done that.
“It’s something that seems shocking coming from the U.S., where there is most likely racism built into our algorithmic decision making, but not in an overt way like this,” said Jennifer Lynch, surveillance litigation director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. “There’s not a system designed to identify someone as African-American, for example.”
The Chinese A.I. companies behind the software include Yitu, Megvii, SenseTime, and CloudWalk, which are each valued at more than $1 billion. Another company, Hikvision, that sells cameras and software to process the images, offered a minority recognition function, but began phasing it out in 2018, according to one of the people.
The companies’ valuations soared in 2018 as China’s Ministry of Public Security, its top police agency, set aside billions of dollars under two government plans, called Skynet and Sharp Eyes, to computerize surveillance, policing and intelligence collection.
In a statement, a SenseTime spokeswoman said she checked with “relevant teams,” who were not aware its technology was being used to profile. Megvii said in a statement it was focused on “commercial not political solutions,” adding, “we are concerned about the well-being and safety of individual citizens, not about monitoring groups.” CloudWalk and Yitu did not respond to requests for comment. 
China’s Ministry of Public Security did not respond to a faxed request for comment. 
Selling products with names like Fire Eye, Sky Eye and Dragonfly Eye, the start-ups promise to use A.I. to analyze footage from China’s surveillance cameras. The technology is not mature — in 2017 Yitu promoted a one-in-three success rate when the police responded to its alarms at a train station — and many of China’s cameras are not powerful enough for facial recognition software to work effectively. 
Yet they help advance China’s architecture for social control. To make the algorithms work, the police have put together face-image databases for people with criminal records, mental illnesses, records of drug use, and those who petitioned the government over grievances, according to two of the people and procurement documents. A national database of criminals at large includes about 300,000 faces, while a list of people with a history of drug use in the city of Wenzhou totals 8,000 faces, they said.
Using a process called machine learning, engineers feed data to artificial intelligence systems to train them to recognize patterns or traits. In the case of the profiling, they would provide thousands of labeled images of both Uighurs and non-Uighurs. That would help generate a function to distinguish the ethnic group. 
The A.I. companies have taken money from major investors. Fidelity International and Qualcomm Ventures were a part of a consortium that invested $620 million in SenseTime. Sequoia invested in Yitu. Megvii is backed by Sinovation Ventures, the fund of the well-known Chinese tech investor Kai-Fu Lee. 
A Sinovation spokeswoman said the fund had recently sold a part of its stake in Megvii and relinquished its seat on the board. Fidelity declined to comment. Sequoia and Qualcomm did not respond to emailed requests for comment.
Mr. Lee, a booster of Chinese A.I., has argued that China has an advantage in developing A.I. because its leaders are less fussed by “legal intricacies” or “moral consensus.” 
“We are not passive spectators in the story of A.I. — we are the authors of it,” Mr. Lee wrote last year. “That means the values underpinning our visions of an A.I. future could well become self-fulfilling prophecies.” He declined to comment on his fund’s investment in Megvii or its practices.
Ethnic profiling within China’s tech industry isn’t a secret, the people said. It has become so common that one of the people likened it to the short-range wireless technology Bluetooth. Employees at Megvii were warned about the sensitivity of discussing ethnic targeting publicly, another person said.
China has devoted major resources toward tracking Uighurs, citing ethnic violence in Xinjiang and Uighur terrorist attacks elsewhere. Beijing has thrown hundreds of thousands of Uighurs and others in Xinjiang into re-education camps. 
The software extends the state’s ability to label Uighurs to the rest of the country. One national database stores the faces of all Uighurs who leave Xinjiang, according to two of the people.
Government procurement documents from the past two years also show demand has spread. In the city of Yongzhou in southern Hunan Province, law enforcement officials sought software to “characterize and search whether or not someone is a Uighur,” according to one document.
In two counties in Guizhou Province, the police listed a need for Uighur classification. One asked for the ability to recognize Uighurs based on identification photos at better than 97 percent accuracy. In the central megacity of Chongqing and the region of Tibet, the police put out tenders for similar software. And a procurement document for Hebei Province described how the police should be notified when multiple Uighurs booked the same flight on the same day. 
A  study in 2018 by the authorities described a use for other types of databases. Co-written by a Shanghai police official, the paper said facial recognition systems installed near schools could screen for people included in databases of the mentally ill or crime suspects.
One database generated by Yitu software and reviewed by The Times showed how the police in the city of Sanmenxia used software running on cameras to attempt to identify residents more than 500,000 times over about a month beginning in mid-February.
Included in the code alongside tags like “rec_gender” and “rec_sunglasses” was “rec_uygur,” which returned a 1 if the software believed it had found a Uighur. Within the half million identifications the cameras attempted to record, the software guessed it saw Uighurs 2,834 times. Images stored alongside the entry would allow the police to double check.
Yitu and its rivals have ambitions to expand overseas. Such a push could easily put ethnic profiling software in the hands of other governments, said Jonathan Frankle, an A.I. researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
“I don’t think it’s overblown to treat this as an existential threat to democracy,” Mr. Frankle said. “Once a country adopts a model in this heavy authoritarian mode, it’s using data to enforce thought and rules in a much more deep-seated fashion than might have been achievable 70 years ago in the Soviet Union. To that extent, this is an urgent crisis we are slowly sleepwalking our way into.”
He hated black men. He wanted to kill one, and he did.
In a videotaped confession, James Harris Jackson, a white Army veteran from Baltimore, told investigators that he spent several days two years ago stalking black men in Manhattan before he spotted a 66-year-old man sifting through trash for recyclables.
And in an undeniable testament of his hate, Mr. Jackson said he pulled a short sword from his coat and repeatedly stabbed the man, Timothy Caughman.
The killing, Mr. Jackson said, was “practice” for a larger attack he had planned for Times Square where he intended to murder young black men who were with white women because he loathed interracial dating.
Mr. Jackson, 30, pleaded guilty on Wednesday to rare state charges of murder as terrorism and murder as a hate crime, accepting what is certain to be a sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole. His dramatic plea to all counts against him came four months after the video of his interview with police was presented at a pretrial hearing in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
Mr. Jackson, who walked into the courtroom on crutches, wearing black slack pants and a white button-up shirt, made no speech and expressed no remorse. He answered a series of questions from Justice Laura A. Ward in a matter-of-fact tone. The judge asked him if he had stabbed Mr. Caughman because he was black and hoped the attack would incite “a racial war.”
“Yes,” he said.
The murder of Mr. Caughman came at a time when hate crimes were rising throughout the country and in New York City. While New York has continued to be one of the safest big cities in the country, the number of reported hate crimes increased by 5 percent last year.
Prosecutors in Manhattan say the number of cases in the borough has increased steadily since the 2016 election of President Trump, whose rhetoric is often divisive.
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said Mr. Jackson’s conviction was the first of a white supremacist on terrorism charges in New York, and one of a few in the country. Mr. Vance had intended to try the case himself.
“This is an incredibly disturbed young man and he brought tragedy to Manhattan and he certainly showed Mr. Caughman no mercy and I don’t think this office should show him any,” Mr. Vance said during an interview at his office. “It was a cruel and completely planned attack with a broader political goal.”
A family friend and a cousin of Mr. Caughman looked on as Mr. Jackson entered his guilty plea.
“The pain is still there,” said Mr. Caughman’s longtime friend, Portia Clark, 66. “I’m grateful he pleaded guilty to all of the charges and they can take him back and throw the key away.”
Ms. Clark, standing outside of the courtroom, addressed Mr. Jackson: “And no — I don’t forgive you for what you did.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
On St. Patrick’s Day in 2017, Mr. Jackson boarded a bus in Washington, D.C., and rode it to New York City. He said he thought about going to another city, but settled on New York because he believed his attack would receive the most media attention there: “I wanted to basically influence the national conversation,” he said.
“I was planning on doing basically as many as I could in Times Square,” he told detectives during a two-hour interview following his arrest. He said he had planned to send an email to The New York Times or CNN to explain the motive behind his “terrorist attack” or what he described as “an amateurish, slipshod version” of one.
After arriving to the city, Mr. Jackson checked into a hotel on West 46th Street. He spent three days hunting victims with a short sword and two smaller knives tucked into his coat.
Security cameras filmed him as he followed a black man whom he later told investigators he decided against attacking because there were too many people around. He said he followed 10 to 15 black people or groups with the intent of killing them, but hesitated each time.
Then, at about 11:15 p.m. on March 20, Mr. Jackson spotted Mr. Caughman rummaging through trash on West 36th Street near Ninth Avenue. Mr. Caughman was a recycler who lived nearby in a room at the Barbour Hotel, which now houses formerly homeless people transitioning to permanent housing. (In earlier reports about the murder, Mr. Caughman was inaccurately described as homeless.)
Mr. Jackson told investigators he stabbed Mr. Caughman in the back. Mr. Vance said the sword struck several of Mr. Caughman’s organs, causing him to bleed out. Mr. Caughman screamed and asked Mr. Jackson, “What are you doing?”
Mr. Jackson responded by stabbing Mr. Caughman several more times in the chest before fleeing. He broke the tip of his sword during the attack and tossed it in a garbage can in Washington Square Park.
Bleeding, Mr. Caughman walked a block to a police station on West 35th Street, where officers called an ambulance, the police said. He died at Bellevue Hospital.
Soon Mr. Jackson’s image from security cameras appeared in news reports. A day after the attack, Mr. Jackson turned himself in at a police substation in Times Square.
At the time, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio strongly condemned the killing. Mr. de Blasio, who spoke at Mr. Caughman’s funeral, called the attack a racist act of domestic terrorism. Mr. Vance agreed and charged Mr. Jackson with “murder in the first degree as an act of terrorism.”
“I looked at this as no different than an Islamist Jihadist coming into the city and attacking a synagogue or attacking a non-Muslim for ideological or political purposes,” Mr. Vance said. “That’s exactly what James Jackson did, except it was based on a bias of white supremacy.”
Mr. Jackson joined the Army in 2009 and served at various locations in the United States, working in military intelligence. He was deployed to Afghanistan between December 2010 and November 2011. Afterward, he was stationed in Baumholder, Germany, before being discharged in August 2012.
Mr. Vance said that after Mr. Jackson left the military he became “self-radicalized” and, in a “twisted way, he saw himself as a key element in starting a worldwide racial war.”
During his interview with detectives, Mr. Jackson said he intended the murder of Mr. Caughman to be a “declaration of global war on the Negro race,” and that he wanted to “inspire white men to kill black men, to scare black men and to provoke a race war.”
He told a detective that he felt no remorse. He said his goal was “a global policy aimed at the complete extermination of the Negro race.”
“I was going for something a bit bigger,” he said.
RABAT — A Moroccan court has sentenced a Swiss national to 10 years in prison on terrorism charges over links to the suspects in the killing of two Scandinavian women near Marrakech in December, the state news agency MAP said on Friday. 
Louisa Vesterager Jespersen, 24, from Denmark, and Maren Ueland, 28, from Norway were found dead on Dec. 17 near the village of Imlil in the Atlas Mountains.
The 33-year-old man sentenced on Thursday was identified by Moroccan media only as Nicolas P. Media said he also holds British citizenship.
Arrested on Dec. 29 in Marrakech, he was tried on charges of “forming a gang to plot and commit terrorist acts aiming at seriously undermining state security, intentionally helping the perpetrators of terrorist acts, training people to join terrorist organizations and apologia for terrorism,” MAP said.
The first instance verdict, which will likely be followed by an appeal, was separate from the case of a Swiss-Spanish national, identified by media as Kevin P. His lawyer, Saad Salhi, told Reuters his trial, as part of a group of 25 other suspects in the double murder, had not begun yet.
Four main suspects pledged allegiance to Islamic State in a video made three days before the tourists’ bodies were found. Authorities described them after they were arrested as “lone wolves” who had not coordinated the killings with Islamic State.
Compared with other countries in North Africa, Morocco has been largely insulated from Islamist militant violence.
The most recent attack took place in April 2011 when 17 people were killed in the bombing of a restaurant in Marrakech. In 2017 and 2018, Morocco said it dismantled 20 militant cells that were planning attacks in the country.
 (Reporting by Ahmed Eljechtimi; Editing by Mark Heinrich and Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON — The National Security Agency has quietly shut down a system that analyzes logs of Americans’ domestic calls and texts, according to a senior Republican congressional aide, halting a program that has touched off disputes about privacy and the rule of law since the Sept. 11 attacks.
The agency has not used the system in months, and the Trump administration might not ask Congress to renew its legal authority, which is set to expire at the end of the year, according to the aide, Luke Murry, the House minority leader’s national security adviser.
In a raw assertion of executive power, President George W. Bush’s administration started the program as part of its intense pursuit for Qaeda conspirators in the weeks after the 2001 terrorist attacks, and a court later secretly blessed it. The intelligence contractor Edward J. Snowden disclosed the program’s existence in 2013, jolting the public and contributing to growing awareness of how both governments and private companies harvest and exploit personal data.
The way that intelligence analysts have gained access to bulk records of Americans’ phone calls and texts has evolved, but the purpose has been the same: They analyze social links to hunt for associates of known terrorism suspects.
Intelligence agencies can use the technique on data obtained through other means, like collection from networks abroad, where there are fewer legal limits. But those approaches do not offer the same systematic access to domestic phone records.
Congress ended and replaced the program disclosed by Mr. Snowden with the U.S.A. Freedom Act of 2015, which will expire in December. Security and privacy advocates have been gearing up for a legislative battle over whether to extend or revise the program — and with what changes, if any.
Mr. Murry, who is an adviser for Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, raised doubts over the weekend about whether that debate will be necessary. His remarks came during a podcast for the national security website Lawfare.
Mr. Murry brought up the pending expiration of the Freedom Act, but then disclosed that the Trump administration “hasn’t actually been using it for the past six months.”
“I’m actually not certain that the administration will want to start that back up,” Mr. Murry said.
He referred to problems that the National Security Agency disclosed last year. “Technical irregularities” had contaminated the agency’s database with message logs it had no authority to collect, so officials purged hundreds of millions of call and text records gathered from American telecommunications firms.
The agency declined to comment on Monday. Press officials with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the National Security Council did not respond to requests for comment.
Matt Sparks, a spokesman for Mr. McCarthy’s office, said late Monday that Mr. Murry “was not speaking on behalf of administration policy or what Congress intends to do on this issue.”
Christopher Augustine, an N.S.A. spokesman, told The New York Times in January that agency officials were “carefully evaluating all aspects” of the Freedom Act program, and were discussing its future.
Mr. Augustine made clear that the White House would make the final call about whether to ask Congress to extend the Freedom Act.
The disclosure that the program has apparently been shut down for months “changes the entire landscape of the debate,” said Daniel Schuman, the policy director of Demand Progress, an advocacy group that focuses on civil liberties and government accountability.
Since “the sky hasn’t fallen” without the program, he said, the intelligence community must make the case that reviving it is necessary — if, indeed, the National Security Agency thinks it is worth the effort to keep trying to make it work.
The phone records program had never thwarted a terrorist attack, a fact that emerged during the post-Snowden debate.
“If there is an ongoing program, even if we all have doubts about it, that’s a very different political matter than if the program has actually stopped,” Mr. Schuman said. “Then the question becomes, ‘Why restart it?’ rather than whether to turn it off.”
The National Security Agency has used the call-detail records — metadata showing who called whom and when, but not the content of what was said — as a map of social networks, analyzing links between people to identify associates of terrorism suspects.
Even without the program, the agency could still collect telecommunications data from abroad, which domestic surveillance laws have left largely unregulated. But while overseas-based collection can give some access to Americans’ data, it apparently does not provide the systematic access to purely domestic phone messages.
The phone records program traces back to the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks when the Bush administration created the secret Stellarwind surveillance program. One component involved the bulk collection of logs of Americans’ domestic phone calls.
Companies like AT&T and MCI — later part of Verizon — initially turned over their customers’ records in response to an order by Mr. Bush. Starting in 2006, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court began issuing secret orders requiring the companies to participate, based on a novel interpretation of Section 215 of the Patriot Act, which said the F.B.I. may obtain business records “relevant” to a terrorism investigation.
In June 2013, the program came to light after The Guardian published the first revelation from the trove of classified files provided by Mr. Snowden: a top-secret surveillance court order to Verizon to provide its customers’ call records.
The disclosure, one of the most significant by Mr. Snowden, prompted sharp criticism of the government’s theory about why it was legal: Essentially, everyone’s phone records were relevant because the government needed to acquire the haystack so that it could hunt for needles of investigative interest. An appeals court later rejected that theory.
While intelligence officials could not point to attacks the program had thwarted, they defended the ability as a useful triaging tool for sifting through potential connections — and suggested that had it been in place before Sept. 11, it might have helped uncover Al Qaeda’s plot. Critics called that argument exaggerated and portrayed it as a legally dubious invasion of privacy that was ripe for abuse.
The Obama administration eventually embraced a plan to end the National Security Agency’s bulk collection of domestic phone data but preserve the old program’s analytical ability, resulting in the Freedom Act of 2015.
Under that law, the bulk records remained in the hands of the phone companies, not the government. But with a judge’s permission, the agency could swiftly retrieve the phone and text logs of particular suspects as well as of all of the people who had been in contact with those suspects, even when they were customers of different phone companies.
Under the replacement system, the number of records about Americans’ communications that the agency collected dropped significantly from the billions per day it had previously been sucking in.
Yet the scale of collection remained huge: The program gathered 151 million records in 2016, despite obtaining court orders to use the system on only 42 terrorism suspects in 2016, along with a few left over from late 2015. In 2017, it obtained orders for 40 targets and collected 534 million records.
Problems with the system emerged last year, when the National Security Agency said it had decided to delete its entire database of records gathered since the Freedom Act system became operational. Glenn S. Gerstell, the agency’s general counsel, said in an interview at the time that because of complex technical glitches, one or more telecom providers — he declined to say which — had responded to court orders for records by sending logs to the agency that included both accurate and inaccurate data.
When the agency then fed those numbers back to the telecoms to get the communications logs of all of the people who had been in contact with its targets, it ended up gathering some data of people unconnected to the targets. The agency had no authority to collect their information, nor a practical way to go through its large database and cull those records it should not have gathered. As a result, it decided to purge them all and start over.
But it had not been clear until Mr. Murry’s comments in the podcast that was posted over the weekend that the problems have continued, even as a legislative battle over the Freedom Act — and the inevitable scrutiny of how the program has functioned — has drawn near.
WARSAW — Polish police on Thursday detained one man in central Warsaw after another died of stab wounds, but there was no suspicion of a terrorist motive or further danger to citizens, a spokeswoman said.
Police were informed at 6:55 p.m. (1655 GMT) that a man was lying bloodied on a street in central Warsaw, but paramedics were unable to revive him. 
 (Reporting by Joanna Plucinska; Editing by Kevin Liffey)
KIGALI — A Rwandan court filed terrorism-related charges against the spokesman for the FDLR rebel group on Monday, two months after his deportation from neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo. 
The FDLR is composed of former Rwandan soldiers and ethnic Hutu militiamen who fled into lawless eastern Congo after the massacre of around 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus during Rwanda’s genocide in 1994. 
Nkaka Ignace, who also goes by the alias La Forge Bazeye, and an FDLR co-defendant, Jean-Pierre Nsekanabo, were charged at their first appearance in a Kigali court with six offences including membership of a terrorist group, taking part in terrorist activities and inciting others to commit terrorism.
"I confess to some of the charges but deny others," Ignace told Judge Justin Nshimiyimana, adding he had been influenced by superiors in FDLR, whom he did not name, into plotting to topple President Paul Kagame's government.
"I apologize for having been given negative information about Rwanda," Ignace told the court.
Prosecutors said the two had "played a direct role in attacks", which they did not specify, carried out by FDLR both in Rwanda and Congo.
In December, two Rwandan soldiers and an unknown number of rebels were killed when a group of attackers crossed into Rwanda from Congo, Kagame told reporters at the time.
Prosecutors said Ignace and Nsekanabo, identified as an intelligence officer in FDLR, had traveled to neighboring Uganda in January to meet representatives of another anti-Kigali rebel group, the Rwanda National Congress (RNC).
RNC is led by some of Rwanda's most prominent dissidents including South Africa-based Kayumba Nyamwasa.
Rwanda has accused Uganda of supporting its dissidents. Early this year Rwanda closed its border with Uganda, disrupting regional trade and sparking tensions. 
The two accused asked the court to free them on bail and a ruling on their application will be delivered on Wednesday.
 (Writing by Elias Biryabarema; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
I lost my home in 2009 when a major operation by the Pakistan military forced us to leave our village in South Waziristan in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas along the border with Afghanistan.
Around 37 million Pashtuns live in this region that includes the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, the Federally Administered Tribal Areas — which have now been merged with the province — and parts of southwestern Baluchistan province. Our impoverished region has been desolated by the long war on terrorism.
When I was in high school, we moved to Dera Ismail Khan, a city around 100 miles away. Ours was yet another family among six million people who have been displaced from the region since Pakistan joined the war on terror in 2001. Tens of thousands of Pashtuns have been killed in terror attacks and military operations since.
But our economic and political rights, and our suffering have remained invisible to most of Pakistan and the world because the region was seen as a dangerous frontier after numerous militants moved there after the fall of the Taliban.
The government ignored us when these militants terrorized and murdered the residents. Pakistan’s military operations against the militants brought further misery: civilian killings, displacements, enforced disappearances, humiliation and the destruction of our livelihoods and way of life. No journalists were allowed into the tribal areas while the military operations were going on.
Pashtuns who fled the region in hopes of rebuilding their lives in Pakistani cities were greeted with suspicion and hostility. We were stereotyped as terrorist sympathizers. I was studying to become a veterinarian, but the plight of my people forced me and several friends to become activists.
In January 2018 Naqeebullah Mehsud, an aspiring model and businessman from Waziristan who was working in Karachi was killed by a police team led by a notorious officer named Rao Anwar. Mr. Anwar, who is accused of more than 400 extrajudicial murders, was granted bail and roams free.
Along with 20 friends, I set out on a protest march from Dera Ismail Khan to Islamabad, the capital. Word spread, and by the time we reached Islamabad, several thousand people had joined the protest. We called our movement the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, or the Pashtun Protection Movement.
Ours is a peaceful movement that seeks security and political rights for Pashtuns. Apart from justice for Mr. Mehsud, we demand investigations into the killings of thousands of other Pashtuns by security forces and militants. We seek an end to enforced disappearances.
As loyal, taxpaying citizens, we demand that Pakistani security forces act as our protectors and stop the harassment of Pashtuns at checkpoints and during raids. We demand that Islamabad cleanse Waziristan of land mines and other unexploded ordinances.
We had several meetings with the military leadership. Some generals publicly acknowledged our grievances but they never moved to address our concerns. We held numerous sit-ins and protests and continued to hope that Pakistan’s leaders would try to address our concerns. Instead, they responded with intimidation and violence. 
After every major protest, police arrests and charges P.T.M. activists and supporters with rioting, treason or terrorism. Some of our activists are still being incarcerated under a colonial-era discriminatory law, which is no longer on the books.
When we soldiered on, they unleashed the Taliban. In July, four P.T.M. protesters were killed and dozens injured after Taliban fighters fired at them. A military spokesman declared these Taliban fighters to be members of a peace committee and praised them for fighting terrorism and doing their part for “stabilization.”
More recently, on Feb. 2, Arman Luni, a leader of our movement, who taught at a college, died after he was beaten up by the police for protesting against a terrorist attack in Balochistan province. My fellow activists and I were barred from joining his funeral. We participated anyway but were forced to leave the province after midnight. As we were driving out, the security forces fired at our car.
Our demands and actions are underwritten by the Constitution of our country but the military is trying to portray us as traitors and enemy agents.
While vile propaganda against our movement is reported as news, the security establishment has ensured that almost nothing is reported about our movement in the mainstream Pakistani newspapers and television networks. 
The military unleashed thousands of trolls to run a disinformation campaign against the P.T.M., accusing us of starting a “hybrid war.” Almost every day they accuse us of conspiring with Indian, Afghan or American intelligence services. Most of our activists, especially women, face relentless online harassment. A social media post expressing support for our campaign leads to a knock from the intelligence services.
Scores of our supporters have been fired from their jobs. Many activists are held under terrorism laws. Alamzaib Khan Mehsud, an activist who was gathering data and advocating on behalf of victims of land mines and enforced disappearances, was arrested in January. Hayat Preghal, another activist, was imprisoned for months for expressing support from our movement on social media. He was released in October but barred from leaving the country and lost his pharmacist job in Dubai, his sole source of income.
Gulalai Ismail, a celebrated activist, has been barred from leaving Pakistan. On Feb. 5, while protesting against the death of Mr. Luni, the college teacher and P.T.M. leader, she was detained and held incommunicado in an unknown place for 30 hours before being released. Seventeen other activists are still being detained in Islamabad.
Imran Khan, who once boasted of his Pashtun origins, took office as the new prime minister of Pakistan in August, but his government has chosen to do little to change the state’s attitude toward our demands for justice and civil rights.
The military is keen to ensure absolute control. We are not seeking a violent revolution, but we are determined to push Pakistan back toward a constitutional order. We are drawing some consolation from the recent judgment by Pakistan’s Supreme Court telling the military and the intelligence agencies to stay out of politics and media.
To heal and reform our country, we seek a truth and reconciliation commission to evaluate, investigate and address our grievances. Since our movement emerged, public opinion in Pakistan has turned against extrajudicial killings. Most major political parties maintain that enforced disappearances have no place in the country.
The legal and structural changes will take time, but breaking the silence and reducing the fear sustained for decades by the security apparatus is a measure of our success, even if the P.T.M.’s leaders are imprisoned or eliminated.
PARIS — A high-profile French jihadist and Islamic State propagandist, Fabien Clain, who is believed to have recorded the Islamic State’s claim of responsibility for the November 2015 attacks in Paris, was killed by an airstrike in southeastern Syria, the American-led coalition said on Thursday.
“A Coalition strike killed an active Daesh media official named Abu Anas al Faransi, also known as Fabien Clain, in Baghouz,” the coalition said in a Twitter posting, using the Arabic name for the Islamic State.
Baghouz, also spelled Baghuz, is a village in the last bit of territory in Syria still held by the militant group.
It was unclear when Mr. Clain was killed, but he and his brother, Jean-Michel, were believed to have been targeted by an airstrike on Feb. 20. The defense minister of France, part of the coalition, called his death “possible” the next day. The fate of the brother remains unclear.
Mr. Clain, 41, narrated a six-minute audio recording produced by the Islamic State, claiming responsibility for the Nov. 13, 2015, attacks on Paris that killed 130 people and wounded more than 400. The recording, released the day after the attacks, included religious chanting by Mr. Clain’s brother.
The brothers also recorded several propaganda songs in French that were released by the Islamic State, or ISIS, urging people to commit terrorist attacks or to leave France for ISIS-controlled territories, according to the Middle East Media Research Institute.
“Advance, advance, never retreat, never surrender,” went the chorus to one released immediately after the Paris attacks.
A well-known figure who navigated French jihadi circles for 20 years, Fabien Clain was one of the most prominent foreign members of the Islamic State. Although the full extent of his influence within the group is not entirely clear, analysts said he played a significant role in spreading its messages to the French-speaking world.
“Those involved in communications were close to those in charge of preparing the attacks,” said Romain Caillet, an independent French expert on ISIS.
Mr. Clain’s death comes as France and other countries are assessing how to handle their citizens who joined the Islamic State but are now detained in makeshift camps in Syria by Kurdish forces, after President Trump’s abrupt decision to withdraw American troops from the region.
A handful of jihadists who were close to the Clain brothers have been detained by Kurdish forces and could be repatriated to France within weeks, according to experts and government officials. Adrien Guihal and Thomas Barnouin, two high-profile Islamic State members who were also involved in its communications, are believed to be among them.
Others could be transferred to Iraq and face trial there. President Barham Saleh of Iraq said during a visit to France on Monday that 13 French citizens had been handed over by Syrian Kurdish forces in January.
The French authorities issued arrest warrants for the Clains in June of last year for their suspected involvement in the Paris attacks. Mr. Caillet said intelligence services had concluded that Mr. Clain’s role in the attacks was more significant than they had believed earlier.
Before the Clain brothers converted to Islam in the 1990s, they were obsessed with rap and wrote Christian hip-hop songs as teenagers, according to a 2016 article in Boudu, a local French magazine.
Investigators believe that they were radicalized in the early 2000s, when they switched to writing a cappella Islamic songs, known as anashid. They posted at least one to a Myspace page.
In the following years, they were part of the “Artigat cell,” named after the small town in southwestern France where a group of Muslims followed the extremist teachings of Olivier Corel, a Franco-Syrian preacher.
Mr. Caillet met Fabien Clain during that period, in Egypt, and described him as a “modest, affable individual open to debate.”
In Artigat, the Clains grew close to another prominent French jihadist, Abdelkader Merah, who was convicted in 2017 of being part of a criminal terrorist conspiracy. Mr. Merah’s younger brother, Mohamed, killed seven people in Toulouse in 2012, including four at a Jewish school, before the police killed him.
In January 2015, just before leaving for Syria, Fabien Clain bought $4,000 worth of music equipment, including a microphone, voice changing equipment and a license to Pro Tools, the music editing software, from a shop in Toulouse, according to French media reports.
“He was a ghost whose name could be found in almost all jihadi cases, a figure who fascinated the whole French jihadi sphere,” said Guillaume Denoix de Saint Marc, the president of the French Association of Victims of Terrorism, or A.F.V.T.
Mr. Denoix de Saint Marc said he would have preferred that Mr. Clain be captured and interrogated about his involvement in the Paris attacks.
“Fabien wasn’t very talkative, but his brother Jean-Michel usually had more to say,” said Chantal Anglade, an A.F.V.T. member whose daughter was wounded in a Cairo bombing in 2009, for which the Clain brothers were interrogated.
In 2009, Mr. Clain was sentenced to five years in prison for his role, as part of the Artigat cell, in recruiting radicalized people and sending them to Iraq. He was released in 2012 and is believed to have left for Syria to join the Islamic State around March 2015.
“He embodied jihadism with a capital J,” Ms. Anglade said. “We can’t be relieved about someone’s death, but we only have contempt for Mr. Clain.”
DAYTON, Ohio — The president of a college Republican group in Ohio has apologized for a fundraising email that referred to Democratic congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez as a "domestic terrorist."
Tom Ferrall is chairman of the Ohio College Republican Federation and a senior at the University of Dayton. He says the email was sent Wednesday without his approval by a third-party fundraising firm he wouldn't name.
Ferrall says his organization has severed ties with the firm. He says the email wasn't something he or the organization would ever endorse.
Ocasio-Cortez said in a tweet after the email was publicized that such a message "puts me in danger every time."
The University of Dayton also said Ferrall improperly used his university mailing address to solicit funds and Ferrall agreed to stop.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry today into what her government could have known about the gunman before the terrorist attacks at two mosques in Christchurch last week that left at least 50 people dead. She also said that her cabinet had agreed “in principle” to an overhaul of New Zealand’s gun laws. 
The suspect in the attack, a 28-year-old Australian, obtained a basic firearms license in November 2017 and bought four weapons online. We compared rules for gun purchases in 16 countries.
Closer look: Interviews with survivors, and videos of the attack and its aftermath, suggest that a bystander and police preparedness may have helped limit the toll.
How to help: Here’s our guide to groups offering aid to the victims.
The Daily: In today’s episode, a Times technology columnist discusses how the attack was, in some ways, made by and for the internet.
A review of the data and voice recorders recovered from the jetliner that went down in Ethiopia found similarities between that crash and one involving the same Boeing model in Indonesia last year, Ethiopia’s Transport Ministry said Sunday.
The disclosure came on the same day as memorial services in Addis Ababa. Many families don’t expect to ever recover remains because the 157 victims died in a fiery explosion.
Related: When the 737 Max was introduced, Boeing and regulators agreed that pilots who had flown an earlier model didn’t need additional simulator training. After two deadly crashes in five months, that decision is now a focus of the investigation.
William Singer, who worked in the college counseling business for the better part of three decades, built a national brand appealing to parents’ worries about their children’s prospects. 
Federal prosecutors say he was the mastermind behind an elaborate effort to pay off coaches and test monitors, fake exam scores, and fabricate student biographies — all to help wealthy parents cheat their children’s way into desirable colleges. Our reporters looked into Mr. Singer’s background.
Another angle: For students who have followed the rules of the college admissions process, now is the nerve-racking time of year when they wait to hear whether they’ve been accepted. “It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment,” one said. 
Notable: The scandal, in which 33 parents have been charged so far, demonstrates what our reporters call “snowplow parents,” who clear away any obstacle to their children’s success. 
Many of the candidates running for president favor legalizing the drug, a view that has become a pillar of progressive politics. People of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses, and legalization has become a test of candidates’ commitment to equal treatment in criminal justice and to fighting economic inequality.
Yesterday: Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York officially entered the Democratic race. 
Go deeper: Democrats have won the presidency with nominees under 52. But age may be relative in 2020, with many younger voters preferring Bernie Sanders, 77.
Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a journalist and a farmer in Iowa argue that Democrats need to know how to speak to voters in rural America if they hope to succeed.
Saudi Arabia has a history of going after dissidents and other Saudi citizens abroad, but the crackdown has increased sharply since Prince Mohammed bin Salman was elevated to crown prince in 2017.
The prince authorized a clandestine campaign that included the surveillance, kidnapping, detention and torture of Saudi citizens, according to American officials who have read classified reports about the efforts. The campaign included the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, pictured on the posters above during a memorial last year.
Attack in the Netherlands: A gunman killed at least three people and injured five on a tram in the Dutch city of Utrecht. A suspect was in custody.
Dispute over Huawei: A U.S. push to prevent the use of the Chinese company’s equipment in next-generation wireless networks has faltered. Some allies have rejected the American argument that Huawei and other Chinese companies pose a security threat.
Midwest flooding: At least two people have died after record-high river levels across the region, particularly in Iowa and Nebraska.
Deadly cyclone in Africa: The death toll has risen to at least 150, and hundreds more were missing, after a huge storm struck Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe.
Arrest in mob killing: The arrest of a 24-year-old man has led the authorities to suspect that the shooting of the reputed leader of the Gambino crime family had more to do with a personal dispute than Mafia ties.
Fox News suspension: The network removed Jeanine Pirro’s program from its prime-time slot on Saturday after the host questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s patriotism. President Trump urged Fox to bring her back.
Snapshot: Millions of orange butterflies like the one above, called painted ladies, are migrating across Southern California this month. Substantial rainfall in the deserts near the border with Mexico, where the insects lay their eggs, has caused the unusually large swarms, scientists say.
N.C.A.A. basketball: Duke, Gonzaga, North Carolina and Virginia secured the top seeds in the men’s tournament, the first round of which begins Thursday. Here’s a printable bracket. The field for the women’s tournament is to be announced tonight.
What we’re reading: Jennifer Jett, an editor in Hong Kong, recommends this essay in Quartz. Jenny Anderson, a former New York Times reporter, writes about how her brother’s death spurred her to focus on building real-life connections and community as “an insurance policy against life’s cruelty.” 
Cook: “Slow-roasted” citrus salmon takes about 30 minutes, and it’s nearly impossible to overcook. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: The trailer for “Avengers: Endgame” may look familiar: It uses footage from previous Marvel films going all the way back to “Iron Man.”
Go: “Skinnamarink,” a new play from the troupe known as Little Lord, explores schooling and humiliation. We made it a Critic’s Pick.
Listen: Maren Morris’s new album, “Girl,” builds on the success of her 2018 hit “The Middle.”
Smarter Living: Flying with an unhappy toddler is no fun for anyone. Our Crowdwise columnist, David Pogue, collected readers’ suggestions for simple distractions: pipe cleaners to bend around fingers or through Cheerios; Post-it notes to draw on, and entertaining adhesives, like painter’s tape, Band-Aids or stickers.
The next column will focus on advice, both that worked and that didn’t. Share your stories of wisdom at crowdwise@nytimes.com.
NASA is planning the first all-female spacewalk this month.
The first spacewalk was on this day, in 1965, by the cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. It was a major Soviet advance in the space race.
The plans had been kept secret, so Soviet broadcasts of the event caught most of the world by surprise, including Lieutenant Colonel Leonov’s family. “What is he doing?” his 4-year-old daughter cried. “Please tell Daddy to get back inside.”
After he retired, Mr. Leonov revealed how many times the mission had neared disaster. In the 2004 book “Two Sides of the Moon,” he detailed how high pressure in his spacesuit had nearly prevented him from re-entering the capsule.
Then a systems failure forced the two-man crew to manually guide re-entry. They landed in Siberia, without communications, and endured days of frigid temperatures, with one pistol to ward off wolves.
After they were found, the pair skied miles to a rescue helicopter.
WASHINGTON — The United States will not remove Sudan from the state sponsor of terrorism list until the country's leadership and policies change and the military no longer holds power, a U.S. official said on Tuesday. 
"We will be willing to look at removing Sudan from the list of state sponsors of terrorism if there is significant change in the country's leadership and policies," the State Department official told Reuters.
The Trump administration suspended talks on normalizing relations with Sudan after the military deposed veteran autocrat Omar al-Bashir last week saying it would oversee a two-year transition, followed by elections. 
The move was rejected by protesters, who for weeks maintained pressure on Bashir to step down, mainly over his mismanagement of the economy, and called on the military to hand over power to civilians.
Sudan was designated a state sponsor of terrorism in 1993 under former U.S. President Bill Clinton, cutting it off from financial markets and strangling its economy. 
Washington lifted a 20-year trade embargo against Sudan in 2017 and was in the process of discussions on removing it from the U.S. terror list when the military stepped in on April 11 to depose Bashir, who ruled Sudan for 30 years. 
The Trump administration suspended the next round of the talks, scheduled for the end of April, after the military took control.
"It is important that the will of the people is respected, and that Sudanese people be allowed a peaceful transition," the official said, adding that lifting the designation at this time was "out of the question" and restrictions remain in place.
Ihab Osman, chairman of the U.S.-Sudan Business Council, said it was important that the United States and its allies, Britain and France, maintain pressure on the military.
Osman told Reuters in an interview the United States should also help rebuild Sudan's economy by supporting debt relief under a World Bank-backed Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC), which Sudan has qualified for.
The initiative would write off Sudan's debts to global institutions and bilateral creditors, freeing up resources for such things as health care services.
Osman said while the U.S.-Sudanese relationship is largely defined by counter-terrorism cooperation, there also "has to be something in it for the Sudanese people."
"We are not asking the United States to do the heavy lifting, or bankroll Sudan, but we need it to send the right signals," said Osman, acknowledging the suspension of U.S.-Sudan talks.
 (Reporting by Lesley Wroughton; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli and Lisa Shumaker)
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan offered on Tuesday to investigate allegations by New Delhi that a Pakistan-based militant group was behind a deadly suicide attack on Indian troops in Kashmir, but he warned that his country would retaliate against any Indian military action.
Mr. Khan’s comments were the first formal response by the Pakistani leader since the bombing on Thursday, the worst in the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir in 30 years. Jaish-e-Muhammad, or the Army of Muhammad, a Pakistan-based militant group, claimed responsibility for the attack. Tensions have since risen sharply between India and Pakistan, and both countries have recalled their ambassadors for consultations.
In his statement, Mr. Khan said he had been focused on a visit by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, who arrived in Pakistan on Sunday for a two-day visit that has led to pledges of $20 billion of investment from Saudi Arabia.
Referring to the attack in Kashmir, Mr. Khan said, “Why would Pakistan, at this stage, indulge when it is moving toward stability? We have fought a war against terrorism for 15 years, thousands of Pakistanis have lost their lives, terrorism is receding, peace and stability are returning — what benefit would we get from such an attack?”
“Today, I would like to make the Indian government an offer,” he added. “Any sort of investigation you wish carried out regarding this incident about the involvement of any Pakistani, we are ready.”
But Mr. Khan also warned against any attack on his country, saying: “Pakistan will not just think about retaliating, we will retaliate. There will be no way to respond other than to retaliate.”
India, which has blamed Pakistan for the suicide bombing and has vowed to respond, seemed to be little reassured by Mr. Khan’s assertions.
The Indian Foreign Ministry said that it was “a well-known fact” that the militant group that carried out the attack last week was based in Pakistan, and it demanded “visible action against the perpetrators.”
“The prime minister of Pakistan has offered to investigate the matter if India provides proof,” the ministry said. “This is a lame excuse.”
The Indian statement called Pakistan “the nerve center of terrorism” and said that “India’s democracy is a model for the world, which Pakistan would never understand.”
The militant group Jaish-e-Muhammad is officially banned in Pakistan, but Indian and American officials say it still operates there under different names.
Indian Army officials said on Tuesday that they had “wiped out” the group’s leadership in a gun battle in Kashmir on Monday that left at least four Indian soldiers dead.
Witnesses said that at least two militants who had been hiding in a house were killed, but there was some confusion about their identities and significance.
MANILA — A grenade was lobbed into a mosque in the southern Philippines before dawn on Wednesday, killing two Muslim religious leaders, in the second attack in days on a place of worship in the restive south, officials said.
The attack, in the city of Zamboanga, occurred three days after a bombing at a cathedral on the nearby island of Jolo, which killed 20 people outright. More than 100 people were wounded in that attack, one of whom died on Tuesday, bringing the death toll to 21.
The police said it was too soon to identify a motive for the Wednesday mosque attack.
The country’s defense secretary, Delfin Lorenzana, said it was “unlikely” that the two bombings were connected.
“We’re still looking at it, but we haven’t seen any connection,” Mr. Lorenzana told reporters, discounting the possibility that the mosque attack was revenge for the cathedral bombing. “The president has said in Jolo that the Christians and Muslims have been coexisting for a hundred years and there have never been revenge attacks.”
The southern Philippines, which unlike the rest of the mostly Roman Catholic country has a Muslim majority, has long been plagued by insurgencies.
The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the Jolo cathedral attack, which it said was carried out by suicide bombers.
Some security officials initially blamed Abu Sayyaf, a local Islamist group, and said the two blasts at the Cathedral of Our Lady of Mount Carmel had probably been set off remotely, using a cellphone. Suicide attacks are rare in the Philippines.
But on Tuesday night, President Rodrigo Duterte contradicted that version of events. He said he had been briefed by intelligence officials who told him the attackers were suicide bombers, an assertion that Mr. Lorenzana, the defense secretary, supported.
“That is really terrorism, and that is really suicide,” Mr. Duterte said. He said that a woman wearing a crucifix had detonated a bomb inside the cathedral, and that a male companion had blown himself up outside minutes later.
The Philippine military, by contrast, has said that bystanders saw a woman, presumably the female bomber, put a bag onto a pew and leave the cathedral shortly before the blasts.
Rommel Banlaoi, the head of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research, said the attacks in Jolo and Zamboanga suggested that a law granting autonomy to Muslims in the south — which voters approved last week throughout the southern part of the Mindanao island group, except in a small province dominated by Jolo — would not quickly lead to peace.
He noted that groups like Abu Sayyaf, some of whose leaders formed a coalition that declared allegiance to the Islamic State, were not included in the peace deal that paved the way for the autonomy law, which Mr. Duterte has signed.
And while Abu Sayyaf is now seen by many as a ragtag group of militants that specializes in kidnapping, its leaders have taken advantage of the region’s lawlessness to invite foreign jihadists to the southern Philippines, said Mr. Banlaoi, who has studied Islamic insurgents in the south for years. In a 2016 video, the Islamic State advised regional fighters who could not travel to Iraq and Syria to head to the southern Philippines instead.
“They have built capabilities to mount large-scale attacks like the Jolo bombings,” Mr. Banlaoi said. “Unless the Abu Sayyaf and other peace spoilers in the area are defeated, parts of the south will be under constant threat of violence.”
Foreign jihadists have collaborated with Abu Sayyaf operatives in the recent past, most visibly in the siege of Marawi, a southern Philippine city that a coalition of militants held for months in 2017.
Philippine defense officials said that they are monitoring dozens of suspected foreign terrorists in the southern part of the country.
Mr. Banlaoi said the Jolo cathedral bombing could embolden other groups to mount their own assaults, noting that thousands of troops had poured onto the island since the Marawi siege but that attacks had continued.
“We have learned lessons,” Mr. Banlaoi said. “But threat groups like the Abu Sayyaf are quicker to learn and faster to act than law enforcement.”
Zamboanga, a port city with a mixed Muslim-Christian population, has seen a number of terrorist attacks over the years. Militants linked to Abu Sayyaf have been known to frequent the area to scout for targets.
Among the first attacks carried out by Abu Sayyaf in the early 1990s was the bombing of a ship used by a Christian missionary organization that had docked in the Zamboanga area, which killed two American missionaries. Over the next decade, a string of attacks in the city left scores dead or injured.
The Philippine Army said two men had been seen acting suspiciously near the mosque, in the village of Talon-Talon within Zamboanga, before the blast on Wednesday. The men killed were identified as Habil Rex, 46, and Bato Sattal, 47, of the island of Basilan.
A spokesman for Mr. Duterte, Salvador Panelo, warned that the two attacks would prompt a strong response from the military to curtail the terror threat.
“The successive attacks on two different places of worship depict the ruthlessness and the godlessness of these mass murderers,” he said. “The Armed Forces of the Philippines will unleash its might and weaponry against these enemies of the state and hunt them ferociously.”
After the Jolo cathedral attack, Mr. Duterte ordered the army to assault militant positions on the island. On Wednesday morning, a local army commander, Brig. Gen. Divino Rey Pabayo, said troops had raided the home of a local militant suspected of being involved.
A man identified as Ommal Yusuf was killed, and troops recovered a cache of weapons, the general said. But he said that two others, one of whom was suspected to be one of the planners of the Jolo attack, had escaped.
BERLIN — German authorities on Wednesday arrested a man suspected of joining the Islamic State group in Syria and later helping send another new recruit for IS from Germany to Syria.
Federal prosecutors said the 28-year-old German national, identified only as Volkan L. in line with German privacy rules, was arrested in Hamburg. He is suspected of membership in a foreign terrorist organization.
Prosecutors said that he traveled to Syria in November 2013 to join IS and underwent military training. They say he returned to Germany in March 2014 and turned his attention to finding new recruits.
He is accused of helping organize travel to Syria for one such person in summer 2014, acting as a go-between between the recruit and an IS member in Syria.
In a separate case, prosecutors said later Wednesday that they have indicted a 47-year-old German woman arrested in October as she attempted to return to the country after allegedly marrying an IS fighter and living in an Iraqi home seized by the extremist group.
The suspect, identified as Mine K., faces charges in a Duesseldorf court of membership in a foreign terrorist organization and having appropriated opponents' property in violation of international law.
She is accused of marrying an IS fighter in a January 2015 video-call ceremony from Germany and joining him with her son in Turkey the next month. They ended up in Tal Afar in Iraq, where they lived in a house seized by the group, prosecutors said.
The woman's husband was killed on guard duty later in 2015 and she decided the following year to leave IS, they added. She and her son left IS-controlled territory for Turkey, then returned to Germany last year.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Mr. Trump moved on Monday to clear out the top ranks of the Department of Homeland Security, a day after the resignation of its secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen.
The White House announced the departure of the director of the Secret Service, Randolph Alles, and more high-ranking officials are expected to leave soon.
The moves reflected the president’s frustration about immigration and security, and appeared to be a housecleaning of officials associated with John Kelly, the former White House chief of staff who was also Mr. Trump’s first Homeland Security secretary.
What’s next: Mr. Trump’s push for tougher immigration policies includes the possible return of a measure that separated migrant families, current and former officials said. 
The Daily: In today’s episode, a reporter who covers immigration for The Times discusses Ms. Nielsen’s tenure.
Another angle: In clamping down on migrants, Mr. Trump has said “Our country is full.” Demographers and economists disagree. 
The country heads into parliamentary elections today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a veteran politician of the Israeli right, facing stiff competition from a centrist rival, Benny Gantz, a former army general. Here’s a look at the voting process and what’s at stake.
Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign. We’ll have live coverage as the polls close at 3 p.m. Eastern.
News analysis: Mr. Netanyahu has promised to begin annexing parts of the West Bank, which would flout four decades of U.S. policy. He was emboldened by President Trump’s support, our White House correspondent writes.
Yesterday: In another move that could help Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Trump designated a powerful arm of Iran’s military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization. It was the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of another country’s government. Mr. Netanyahu and Trump administration officials have said Iran is the greatest threat facing Israel.
Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the departure of the country’s authoritarian ruler. Algeria’s longtime leader was forced out. And in Libya, an aging general is promising to end the chaos that followed the ouster of the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in 2011.
The uprisings across the Arab world eight years ago are still reverberating across North Africa, but the renewed unrest shows that the problems that led to the earlier uprisings remain. Those include growing populations of disaffected young people, closed and corrupt economies, and authoritarian governments unresponsive to the public.
What’s next: President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt is to meet President Trump at the White House today. Mr. el-Sisi, 64, is seeking at least a tacit blessing before a referendum to change the Egyptian constitution so that he can stay in power until 2034 — in effect, as president for life.
Kelly Catlin, 23, won a silver medal in cycling at the 2016 Olympics and had a shot at gold at the 2020 Games. She was also a graduate student in computational mathematics at Stanford, setting up opportunities off the track. 
That seemingly solid path made her downward spiral all the more mystifying to loved ones. She was found dead in her apartment last month.
Quotable: Her father, Dr. Mark Catlin, blames several factors for her suicide, including a concussion in January. “I wake up every two to three hours at night to go through all of these permutations on what could have saved her,” he said. “I can’t help but wonder what she would’ve done with her life.”
The Boeing 737 Max jet that crashed twice in five months relied on decades-old systems and left pilots without some common safety features.
“It was state of the art at the time, but that was 50 years ago,” said a former engineer who helped design the Max’s cockpit. “It’s not a good airplane for the current environment.”
Attorney general in Congress: William Barr is scheduled to testify today and Wednesday to discuss the Justice Department budget. Some lawmakers are expected to question him over his handling of the special counsel’s report.
Saudis barred: Sixteen Saudis, including a top aide to Prince Mohammed bin Salman, will be denied entry to the U.S., Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday. The Trump administration has been criticized for playing down C.I.A. findings that show Prince Mohammed played a role in the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi.
Mar-a-Lago arrest: The Chinese woman who was arrested at President Trump’s Florida resort had a device to detect hidden cameras and $8,000 in a hotel room, a federal prosecutor has said.
College admissions scandal: Fourteen people, including the actress Felicity Huffman, will plead guilty, prosecutors have said. Fifty people were charged in the case, which involved faked test scores, phony athletic credentials and big payments.
The 2020 election: And then there were 18. Representative Eric Swalwell of California has joined the crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. Keep track here.
Storm threat in Midwest: An unusually powerful storm this week comes after one last month that resulted in widespread flooding in the region.
Convictions in Hong Kong protests: Nine pro-democracy activists face prison terms of up to seven years after being convicted today for their roles in widespread protests in the city in 2014.
Snapshot: Above, Virginia won its first N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship on Monday, defeating Texas Tech, 85-77, in overtime. The game was the first in 40 years between men’s teams that had previously never played for the title.
Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel was among the hosts who bid farewell to the departing Homeland Security secretary: “Goodbye Kirstjen. Whoever replaces you permanently is going to have some very big cages to fill.”
What we’re reading: This article in Popula. Anna Holland, an editor based in London, recommends it, saying: “This is one of the best pieces on climate change I’ve read in a very long time. It asks tough questions of everyone — not just those on the hunt for a luxury apartment in Miami Beach.”
Cook: Spicy sausage and butternut squash are a perfect match. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: “Fosse/Verdon,” FX’s biopic mini-series, premieres tonight and assumes a thorough knowledge of Broadway. Here’s a cheat sheet.
Go: “Oasis” is a charming, cheering piece of site-specific theater in Lower Manhattan. It’s a Critic’s Pick.
Listen: “Old Town Road,” the hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what might be country music, is the focus of our pop podcast.
Smarter Living: Organize your kitchen like a professional chef to keep ingredients and tools handy. Separate cookware by function: prep, cook, serve, store. Date spices and keep them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace many gadgets.
We also have tips for securely mounting your flat-screen TV.
Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt.
Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.
She named the skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.
Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.
Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even arrest — in parts of the Middle East.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
Britain asks Europe for more time, China’s slowing economy reaches new industries and Japan’s so-called snow monsters feel the effects of climate change. Here’s the latest: 
After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers voted to delay the country’s departure from the E.U. beyond the original March 29 deadline. 
In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit, effectively bringing the country back to square one, and turned down an attempt to seize control of the process from Prime Minister Theresa May.
What next? Mrs. May must get permission to postpone Brexit from European Union officials next week but that might only create new problems.
Without an approved deal, it’s unclear how long the extension should be and what can be achieved in the extra time. Too short, and it’d be impractical. Too long, and Britain would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May, which neither of the main political parties want.
Another angle: The slow-moving, painstaking Brexit process has diminished the executive authority that has historically been the linchpin of a streamlined, predictable “Westminster model,” writes our London-based correspondent Ellen Barry. Follow her on Twitter for all of Brexit’s twists and turns. 
With all of its 737 Max 8 planes now grounded around the world, the aircraft manufacturer has a difficult task ahead: navigating the unknown costs of damage to its reputation.
The short-term costs of a software fix for the jet will probably be manageable. The bigger concern is whether Boeing can salvage confidence in the Max 8 model, the company’s best-selling jet that accounts for around $550 billion in future revenue.
Details: Since the second crash of a Max 8 plane, in Ethiopia on Sunday, shares of Boeing have dropped nearly 11 percent.
Airlines that were using the planes have started demanding compensation for losses while the jets are out of service. It costs an estimated $1 million to lease a replacement jet for three months.
Passenger backlash might also force some airlines to turn to Boeing’s main rival, Airbus.
The latest: The so-called black box from the flight that crashed was sent to France for analysis.
Explainer: Here’s a visual guide to why regulators are concerned about the Max 8 plane. 
The country’s slowing economic growth, which has already rippled through factory floors and construction sites, is expanding into other once-thriving sectors, such as the tech industry.
Educated, middle-class workers are now faced with job cuts and shrinking paychecks, indicating that the slump is broader than official numbers suggest and might be harder for the government to reverse.
Impact: As white-collar workers start to feel the pinch, they’re tightening their belts and spending less money, which will have a trickle-down effect across other parts of the economy.
The government’s usual tactics to resuscitate growth — unleashing a wave of loans or spending on infrastructure — won’t be much help for the service, financial and tech industries. Experts say the government will need to think of long-term policy reforms to get over this bump.
Related: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, as one of the lead negotiators in U.S. trade talks with Beijing, has been pushing China to open up its film industry to give Hollywood greater access to the local market. But ethics officials are raising questions about conflicts of interest given Mr. Mnuchin’s stakes in a film-production company. 
Federal prosecutors are looking into the social media company’s data-sharing deals with some of the world’s largest technology companies, which gave them access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users, sometimes without their consent.
According to two people familiar with the matter, a grand jury subpoenaed records from at least two of more than 150 companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had deals with Facebook.
Reminder: Facebook has spent the last year under scrutiny, with investigations by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Justice Department, which is specifically looking into reports that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica used the platform to help President Trump’s election campaign.
One sticking point: The data-sharing partnerships could be a violation of a 2011 consent agreement between Facebook and the F.T.C. to protect user privacy. The F.T.C. is currently weighing a possible multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook, which would be the largest such penalty by a trade regulator. 
Border Wall: The U.S. Senate, in a bipartisan rebuke, voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the border to fund his wall. The Senate vote was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration and almost certainly sets up Mr. Trump’s first veto.
Malaysia: Prosecutors refused to dismiss the case of a Vietnamese woman accused of assassinating Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in Kuala Lumpur in 2017 by smearing him with a nerve agent. Her co-defendant was released days ago without any charges or any explanation.
Pakistan: China, which has close military and economic ties with Pakistan, blocked a U.N. Security Council vote that would have blacklisted the founder of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Masood Azhar, derailing a yearslong effort by India to designate the group as a terrorist organization. The group recently claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on Indian soldiers in Kashmir that dragged India and Pakistan to the brink of war.
New Zealand: An attack on a government minister on Thursday rattled the country, where politicians are often seen in public unencumbered by security guards, leading Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to warn people not to take a high level of access to lawmakers for granted.
Snow monsters: Every year, in a village in the Yamagata Prefecture, snow and ice draped over conifer trees create sculptural Godzilla-like figures, known as “juhyo,” that draw tourists from across the world. But climate change is beginning to diminish the phenomenon.
Climate change: Students in more than 100 countries will be protesting climate change today in what could be one of the largest challenges yet against global environmental policies. And it all started with a shy 16-year-old in Sweden.
U.S.: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman and Democrat who came close to unseating Senator Ted Cruz in the midterm elections last year, announced he was jumping into the 2020 presidential race, entering an already-crowded field of diverse candidates and big-ticket proposals.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: This Guinness pie recipe is worthy of a celebration. (You may want a walk after, or a nap.)
Cutting out plastic when you’re grocery shopping is almost impossible. Writing a list and using a bit of imagination might help.
Playing an instrument can be a rewarding hobby, and many apps can help get you started.
A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story, where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.
The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.
He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.
The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.
P.S. His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, including playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.
Andrea Kannapell, Briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. 
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON — Swept up by authorities after the Sept. 11 attacks, Adham Hassoun, a Palestinian computer programmer who lived in Florida, served 15 years in prison for sending support to Islamist militants abroad. His sentence completed, he then waited in immigration detention more than a year and a half while the government fruitlessly hunted for a place to deport him.
Finally, a judge ordered him temporarily released in the United States. But instead, the Trump administration, citing a little-used immigration regulation issued after Sept. 11, notified Mr. Hassoun last month that he was being declared a security risk and would be kept locked up indefinitely.
Mr. Hassoun, 56, has sued the government in a case that is shaping up to be the first legal test of that assertion of executive power. The lawsuit is the latest chapter in a series of disputes — dating back to the opening of the Guantánamo Bay prison in January 2002 — over when the government may label people terrorism risks to hold them in open-ended detention, and what due-process rights they have to contest their indefinite lockup.
“The government is saying it can hold someone solely because it claims he is a danger, without a justification like he’s a combatant in an armed conflict or has a mental illness that prevents him from controlling his own actions,” said Jonathan Hafetz of the American Civil Liberties Union, who is consulting in the case. “This is a monumentally important issue courts have never addressed.”
Mr. Hassoun is difficult to deport because he is stateless. He was born in Lebanon, which did not grant him citizenship and has declined to take him. The Palestinian Authority said he may go to the West Bank, but Israel and Jordan have not consented to letting him get there, according to his volunteer lawyers, Nicole Hallett and Jonathan Manes of the University at Buffalo School of Law.
Before Mr. Hassoun’s case, the government had invoked the Bush-era regulation only once, the Department of Homeland Security said. That was in a 2015 case in which the Obama administration cited the regulation to justify keeping another Palestinian man detained; he had finished a prison sentence for planting a bomb on a Hawaii-bound airliner in 1982, and the government was having trouble finding a place to deport him, too. But before a judge could rule on whether his continued detention was lawful, Mauritania took him in.
Mr. Hassoun is linked to a far more famous terrorism case: Jose Padilla, an American citizen who was arrested in Chicago in 2002. The Bush administration deemed him an enemy combatant and held him for years at the Charleston, S.C., naval brig — including a 22-month period when he was denied access to a lawyer and interrogators subjected him to extreme isolation and sensory deprivation.
Eventually, to avoid Supreme Court review of whether its handling of Mr. Padilla was unconstitutional, the Bush administration transferred him to the criminal justice system for a trial. Mr. Hassoun was a co-defendant. They had attended mosque together, and Mr. Hassoun — an outspoken advocate of helping oppressed Muslims — was accused of recruiting Mr. Padilla to the “global jihad” cause.
Evidence presented at the trial showed that Mr. Hassoun had separately been under F.B.I. surveillance for years. He was accused of sending money and supplies to mujahedeen fighting in places like Bosnia, Kosovo and Chechnya, under the guise of humanitarian relief for Muslims facing oppression.
Prosecutors sought a life sentence. But Judge Marcia Cooke balked, noting that there were no specific, identifiable victims of his crimes and that the F.B.I. had known what he was doing for years before arresting him — a fact that she said “does not support the government’s argument that Mr. Hassoun poses such a threat to the community that he needs to be imprisoned for the rest of his life.”
In the lawsuit, Mr. Hassoun’s lawyers accused the government of seeking “to impose what amounts to a life sentence on the very same basis that the trial judge considered and rejected.”
The Departments of Homeland Security and Justice declined to comment.
Complicating matters, the lawsuit says that the F.B.I. has produced a memorandum assessing Mr. Hassoun as a security risk for reasons that go beyond his actions two decades ago, citing allegations that he used unspecified “incendiary rhetoric” in Muslim prayer services at the immigration facility and tried to recruit three unidentified fellow detainees for illegal activities.
Neither the government nor his defense team would provide the memo to The New York Times or describe the purported illegal activities. Ms. Hallett and Mr. Manes called the claims false, and said making the details of such “slander” public would only smear their client’s reputation. Part of their argument is that he has a right to a hearing to confront his accusers and contest the credibility of such claims.
While the dispute over Mr. Hassoun is new, the dilemma it raises is not. A longstanding immigration statute says that when a foreigner is subject to a final removal order, the government should take him into custody for deportation. But it does not dictate what should happen if that goal proves impossible.
In June 2001, the Supreme Court rejected the idea that the government can hold such people indefinitely. Writing for a five-justice majority, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said that it would be unconstitutional to interpret the law as permitting perpetual civil detention, and set a general six-month limit for such custody.
Still, in that case, Zadvydas v. Davis, the majority also suggested that exceptions could be made for “special circumstances,” like if a detainee had a mental illness that caused him to pose a threat to public safety. Justice Breyer also noted that the case before the court in 2001 did not involve terrorism.
Several months later, the Sept. 11 attacks touched off a period of heightened fears about Islamist terrorism, including sweeps aimed at rounding up and prosecuting or deporting hundreds of noncitizen Muslim men — like Mr. Hassoun.
Meanwhile, in November 2001, the Bush administration issued its regulation responding to the Zadvydas ruling. Among other things, it carved out an exception to the six-month release rule for foreigners deemed to be linked to terrorism. But that provision sat on the books, unused, for years.
Mr. Hassoun’s lawsuit challenging it may face steep obstacles, legal experts said.
The five-member conservative bloc that now controls the Supreme Court appears less sympathetic to people facing deportation than the court was in 2001. The court ruled 5 to 4 last week that immigrants facing deportation proceedings because they committed crimes, including minor ones for which they were released from criminal custody long ago, must be detained during that process without bail.
The Supreme Court will be unlikely to order Mr. Hassoun released if the Trump administration says he poses a security threat, predicted Jamil Jaffer, a George Mason University law professor who held several national-security positions in the Bush administration.
“The government’s hand is stronger when it comes to evaluating a national-security threat because courts generally give the president more deference in that space,” he said. “I just don’t see a court granting him relief.”
Stephen Vladeck, a University of Texas, Austin, law professor, noted that a provision in the USA Patriot Act, enacted in October 2001, creates a way for the attorney general to hold terrorism-linked foreigners in open-ended custody if they cannot be deported. While the government is not invoking that statute, he said, it may argue in court that its existence means the regulation is reasonable.
Several dozen noncitizens will complete prison sentences for terrorism-related crimes in the coming years, according to a database compiled by the Center on National Security at Fordham Law. Many are from troubled nations like Somalia where officials may be reluctant to repatriate them.
“The creation of any precedent will be a big deal,” Mr. Vladeck said. “Once there is case law on the books that the government is able to subject even some immigrants to perpetual detention, it’s not hard to imagine the government taking advantage of it.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
The E.U. gives its terms for postponing Brexit, digital mercenaries are open for business, and waters recede in Mozambique. Here’s the latest: 
Turning down terms requested by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, E.U. leaders on Thursday agreed to extend the deadline for Britain’s looming March 29 exit from the bloc to May 22 if next week Mrs. May can persuade lawmakers in Parliament to come around to her plan for leaving, which they have roundly rejected twice. 
If she cannot persuade lawmakers to accept her plan, Mrs. May will get a shorter delay in exiting the E.U. — until April 12. Mrs. May accepted the terms. 
And Britain could stay in the bloc much longer if it decided it needs more time for a bigger rethink. If Britain were to get the longer delay, it would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May. 
What’s next? In a news conference after the E.U.’s decision, Mrs. May seemed to rule out a long delay, arguing that it would be “absurd” for British voters to participate in E.U. elections. She also said she would not consider revoking Brexit. The options seemed to be dwindling to Mrs. May’s plan; a vote on a so-called soft Brexit that would retain close ties to the E.U.; or crashing out of the bloc without a deal. Follow our correspondent Stephen Castle on Twitter for the latest updates.
Word of warning: In a rare joint statement, the Confederation of British Industry and the Trades Union Congress said that a no-deal Brexit “would be felt by generations to come” and called the current situation “a national emergency,” with the risk of that outcome soaring.
While families were still mourning their loved ones killed off Indonesia in the Lion Air plane crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.
But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know it included a clause prohibiting them from suing the carrier, its financial backers or Boeing.
Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.
Boeing: The Boeing model, a 737 Max 8, also crashed in Ethiopia this month. The two doomed jets lacked optional safety features that Boeing sold separately at an additional cost. Now the aircraft manufacturer is making one of those features standard as part of a fix to get the planes into the air again.
Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives from around the world.
This growing and barely governed world of digital combat has enabled governments to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels, but is also being used for more sinister impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.
The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.
Takeaway: The rapid expansion of these private spying companies has prompted concerns about a dangerous and chaotic future in which even governments with small budgets can inflict immense damage.
How we know: Our monthslong investigation into the secret world of this high-tech battleground was based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies, as well as a review of documents.
With the waters from Cyclone Idai starting to recede, those staggered in its wake were trying to take full stock of its effects. Mozambique’s death toll had risen to more than 200; 139 were reportedly killed in Zimbabwe, and another 56 in Malawi. Hundreds of thousands of people in areas that were already very poor have been displaced. 
But there was good news. Waters were said to be retreating “quickly,” allowing recovery workers to reach communities that had been cut off. 
Impact: Many villagers in Mozambique work in machambas — farm fields handed down from the nation’s former colonial power, Portugal — and many are subsistence farmers. Homes, clothes and crops crucial to livelihoods have vanished. Aid groups estimate that 90 percent of Beira, a port city with about a half-million people, was destroyed.
How to help: Here are some of the aid organizations delivering relief.
Israel: President Trump said the U.S. should recognize Israel’s authority over the Golan Heights, which the country seized from Syria in 1967 and has since become one of the world’s most disputed territories. The president’s announcement on Twitter points to a significant shift in decades-long American policy.
Asylum dispute: The Home Office in Britain, which is responsible for handling immigration, cited biblical verses about vengeance to deny asylum to an Iranian man who said he had converted from Islam to Christianity because it was a “peaceful” religion.
Netherlands: Dutch prosecutors said they would bring terrorism charges against a man suspected of killing three people on a tram in Utrecht, in addition to multiple counts of murder or manslaughter. The police said they were still investigating the motives. One other man remained in custody in connection with the attack. 
U.S. flooding: Twenty-five states are at serious risk of flooding this spring, federal scientists said, with Nebraska and other Midwestern states already reeling from record-breaking late-winter floods.
Britain: The police and counterterrorism officials are investigating vandalism at five mosques in Birmingham, home to one of the country’s biggest Muslim populations. 
New Zealand: At least two people have been charged with sharing video of the Christchurch mosque attacks that the gunman broadcast via social media; a law forbids dissemination or possession of material depicting extreme violence and terrorism. Others could face related charges under a human rights law that forbids incitement of racial disharmony. 
Nirav Modi: The Indian jewelry designer to the stars was arrested in London in connection with a nearly $3 billion bank fraud in India. India’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party immediately turned the news into campaign fodder, claiming credit for the arrest.
Kurt Vonnegut: Published 50 years ago this month, Vonnegut’s “Slaughterhouse-Five” made the 47-year-old writer a star, but it was also an act of self-therapy by a man who had what now would probably be considered PTSD after the bombing of Dresden, Germany. We took a look back on the countercultural classic
Amsterdam: The authorities announced several measures to manage tourism, including a ban on guided tours of the city’s notorious red-light district, starting next year.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Tahini isn’t just for hummus. Try it in an earthy dressing to drizzle on roasted butternut squash bread salad.
Readers recommended ways to shrink your plastic footprint: Reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.
We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.
What do lichens and politics have in common?
As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.
The phrase, which developed its political connotation in the 20th century, appeared in The New York Times at least as early as 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as “the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.”
This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.
Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
BRUSSELS — Belgian authorities say they have arrested a man on suspicion that he was part of a terrorist group and might have been planning an attack.
Federal prosecutors said Monday the 22-year-old Belgian man, identified as Jimmy K., is charged with "taking part in the activities of a terrorist group."
Searches were conducted in three Belgian towns in connection with the arrest but no weapons or explosives were found. No other details were provided.
State broadcaster RTBF says the man was detained early Sunday at his grandmother's house in Wavre, 30 kilometers (19 miles) southeast of the capital, Brussels. It said he had converted to Islam and become radicalized and was in the early stages of preparing an attack. RTBF did not identify the source of its information.
JERUSALEM — Several Jewish teenagers have been arrested in connection with the fatal stoning of a Palestinian woman in the West Bank, Israel’s internal security agency said on Sunday.
The agency, the Shin Bet, said in a statement that the suspects, who were not identified because they are minors, were under investigation for “grave terrorism offenses, including murder.”
The Palestinian woman, Aisha Rabi, who was in her 40s, was struck in the head by a stone as she rode in a car with her husband and two daughters near the settlement of Rehelim, in the occupied West Bank, on the night of Oct. 12. Her husband, Yaqoub Rabi, who was driving, said at the time that he believed the culprits were Jewish settlers and that he had heard them speaking Hebrew.
The Shin Bet said Ms. Rabi was the mother of nine children.
The five suspects are students of Pri Haaretz, a yeshiva high school for Orthodox boys in Rehelim, according to the authorities. The morning after the Friday night attack, the Shin Bet said, activists set out by car from the settlement of Yitzhar for Rehelim, where they briefed the students on how to prepare for, and deal with, Shin Bet interrogations.
That journey would have aroused suspicion, officials said, since driving on the Sabbath is generally forbidden for observant Jews, and Yitzhar is a religious settlement.
Lawyers representing three of the detained minors, who were arrested a week ago, were first granted access to them around midnight on Saturday.
“As we have asserted from the start, our clients are not connected in any way to the case,” the lawyers said in a statement after the visit, adding that the Shin Bet had no evidence connecting the suspects to the act.
“Our clients underwent trying days and suffered the extremely inappropriate conduct of the Shin Bet interrogators,” said the three lawyers, Adi Keidar and Nati Rom of the right-wing legal aid group Honenu, and Itamar Ben Gvir.
They said two other minors were in detention in connection with the case but had not been allowed to speak with a lawyer.
Radical young settlers began attacking Palestinian property more than a decade ago, as part of a doctrine known as “price tag,” exacting a price for army and police actions against rogue settlement activity and avenging Palestinian acts of terrorism.
The Israeli authorities have struggled to contain the settler violence, despite fears that it has the potential to set the combustible West Bank ablaze.
In 2015, the authorities uncovered a shadowy Jewish terrorist network known as the Revolt, after the title of its manifesto, whose young extremist settlers rebelled against what they viewed as the inertia of the Israeli establishment.
The Shin Bet has employed extraordinary methods against Jewish terrorism suspects, including administrative detention and delaying access to lawyers, measures that were previously reserved for Palestinians accused of terrorism.
The deadliest case of Jewish terrorism in recent years was an arson attack on a Palestinian home in the West Bank village of Duma in July 2015 that killed a toddler and his parents. Two years ago, a settler and an accomplice were charged with murder in that attack. Their trial is underway.
Settlers have also set fire to mosques and churches, Palestinian fields and vehicles. They have vandalized property and slashed car tires in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, often leaving behind graffiti messages in Hebrew.
There has been speculation that the students suspected of throwing stones at cars on the night of Oct. 12 were taking revenge for an attack a week earlier, when a Palestinian gunman fatally shot two Israeli workers in an Israeli-run factory in the West Bank.
Though a news blackout about the reason for the latest arrests was lifted on Sunday, right-wing leaders and activists have been protesting the conditions of the teenagers’ detention, politicizing the issue during an already-heated election campaign.
In a video released Saturday night, Rabbi Haim Druckman, an influential leader and educator in the religious pro-settlement community, called on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to get the teenagers released.
“If there is any problem, it is proper to interrogate them just as anyone else in the state of Israel is interrogated,” Rabbi Druckman said. “But in no uncertain terms they should not be in the basements of the Shin Bet. They are not terrorists.”
The Shin Bet responded with an unusual call in its statement for a halt to what it described as an effort “to defame the organization and its staff and delegitimize its operations.”
KINGSTON, Ontario — A youth was charged on Friday with “facilitating a terrorist activity” in eastern Ontario and trying to persuade a friend, who is a Syrian refugee, to plant a bomb in a public place. The refugee was released from custody although the possibility of charges against him remain.
The youth who was charged was not identified, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police would not describe him. But the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the Canadian Press news agency identified his friend as Hussam Eddin Alzahabi, 20, one of about 52,000 Syrian refugees who have come to Canada.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who made the Syrians’ resettlement a leading priority of his government, faced questions on Friday about Canada’s openness toward refugees.
With the Syrians’ arrival, Canadians swiftly embraced a program that allows individuals or groups to bring refugees to their country provided that the Canadians are willing to meet all of their needs for at least one year. While the program is a source of pride for many Canadians, Mr. Trudeau’s opponents on the right have long raised concerns that it could leave the country vulnerable.
Though little is known about the bomb plot case, it could fuel a right-wing backlash against refugees similar to that in Germany, which has also admitted large numbers of asylum seekers.
Conservative Party leaders hope to make Mr. Trudeau’s immigration policies an issue in this year’s parliamentary elections, and this episode may give them an opening.
Although he did not mention Mr. Alzahabi by name or discuss his background, Andrew Scheer, the Conservative leader, said in a statement that the arrests made it “clear that Canada’s refugee screening process needs to be seriously examined.”
“We’ve recently learned of several examples of dangerous individuals entering the country due in part to lax screening procedures,” Mr. Scheer said.
Ralph Goodale, Mr. Trudeau’s public safety minister, dismissed the opposition leader’s remarks.
“Somehow he already knows or is presuming the result of a police investigation,” Mr. Goodale told reporters. “Let’s get the facts on the table and then we’ll determine the appropriate course of action.”
Even by the Mounties’ tight-lipped standards, remarkably few facts were released on Friday about the plot and the people the police said had originated it.
At a news conference, an official of the Mounties, Chief Superintendent Michael LeSage, said that the national police force had received a tip from the F.B.I. in late December that a terror plot was underway in Kingston. About 300 people and a special, low-flying surveillance airplane — which provoked curiosity and irritation among many people in the city — were brought in to aid in the investigation.
Superintendent Peter Lambertucci of the Mounties, who heads one of its counterterrorism units in Ottawa, said that while Mr. Alzahabi and his friend had developed an “attack plan,” they had no target or date. And while the police seized materials that could be components for a bomb, they said the two had not built one. The police would not answer questions about a possible motive or ideology fueling the plot.
Canada’s welcoming attitude toward refugees from Syria’s civil war, which is approaching its eighth year, became a powerful symbol of its openness as a country.
In 2017, Mr. Trudeau famously wrote a tweet saying that Canada was ready to welcome “those fleeing persecution, terror & war.” It came after President Trump moved to ban travelers from several Muslim-majority countries and seemed calculated to present liberal Canada’s embrace of refugees as a counterpoint to the attitude of the Trump administration.
A group of four churches in Kingston sponsored Mr. Alzahabi’s family, said Alex Pierson, the executive director of the Anglican Diocese of Ontario. Citing privacy reasons, he declined to say when the family arrived, other than that it was more than a year ago.
An annual report for one of the churches indicates that Mr. Alzahabi arrived from Kuwait with his father, Amin Alzahabi, his mother and three siblings after their home in Damascus, Syria, was destroyed. Amin Alzahabi, the report said, had been jailed for political reasons and “would be vulnerable to arrest and ‘extreme measures’ should he and the family return home.”
A joint statement by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches said that they supported the police in the investigation and that “our concerns, thoughts and prayers are for Kingston and the surrounding area, the faith communities involved, the family and all those affected by this unfortunate situation.”
Amin Alzahabi told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that his son liked Canada and the safety it brought the family, and he rejected the idea that his son was plotting an attack.
“I trust my son,” he told the broadcaster, “I know he cannot do anything against any human.”
A 2018 government report on terrorist threats to Canada said that the main one stemmed from individuals or groups inspired by the Islamic State or Al Qaeda. The country was also concerned with threats posed by right-wing extremists.
Since October 2014, Canada’s national terrorism threat level has remained at “medium,” meaning that a violent act of terrorism could occur. Mr. Goodale, the public safety minister, said on Thursday that the latest arrests had not changed that designation.
CAIRO — President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, whose government has jailed critics, muzzled the independent press and executed nine prisoners in the past week, has never appreciated lectures on human rights.
But the subject seemed to especially irk the authoritarian leader on Monday when, at the end of a major summit meeting with European and Arab leaders, he lashed out at Europeans who dared to question his record.
“You are not going to teach us about humanity,” Mr. el-Sisi told reporters. Europeans and Arabs have a different “sense of humanity, values and ethics,” he continued. “Respect our values and ethics, as we do yours.”
The outburst was a mark of the often awkward embrace between European Union and Arab League leaders in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, at their inaugural summit to broker closer ties on issues like migration and terrorism.
The summit was held in Egypt as a sweetener to Mr. el-Sisi, who European leaders hope will boost their efforts to deter or push back mostly African migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean. But the timing was awkward: Only weeks earlier, Mr. el-Sisi’s supporters in Parliament started a drive to extend his rule until 2034, possibly longer.
And the cloud of Egypt’s dismal rights record hung over the event, driven by accusations that European leaders were enabling Mr. el-Sisi’s repression. Those tensions burst into the open during the summit’s final hours.
In a strongly worded closing speech, Mr. el-Sisi accused prosperous European nations of showing little understanding of the pressures facing Arab countries threatened with conflict. He trenchantly defended his use of the death penalty. When he finished speaking, the hall of mainly Egyptians, including members of the country’s media, burst into applause.
The reception was not unanimous. “I really appreciate how enthusiastic your media are,” the European Council president Donald Tusk said wryly, addressing Mr. el-Sisi, The Associated Press reported. “It’s impossible in Europe to have such a reaction. Congratulations.”
The event, which gathered Arab leaders from across a region rived by conflict and political strife, was never going to be easy for the Europeans in terms of its political optics. The European Union once had an arms-length relationship with authoritarian rulers like Hosni Mubarak, who ruled Egypt for almost 30 years before his ouster in 2011.
But worries about terrorism and illegal migration, as well as a desire to make lucrative arms sales, have drawn European leaders closer to authoritarian leaders like Mr. el-Sisi — a stance critics say encourages their excesses at a time when the United States is often silent on rights abuses.
President Emmanuel Macron of France was feted in Cairo on a three-day visit in January. In 2017, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany dined with Mr. el-Sisi beside the pyramids.
“Sometimes you have to dance with whoever’s on the dance floor,” Mark Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, said in a speech in Zurich this month. “We don’t always have a choice.”
At the conference, much of the media focus was on the British prime minister, Theresa May, and her efforts to find a way through the imbroglio of Britain leaving the European Union. There was speculation of a potential “deal in the desert” with European leaders, but one failed to materialize.
The talks between the Arab and European states did not produce much in the way of concrete results. But Europe’s leaders signaled their desire to consolidate their sphere of influence as Russia and China move to fill the vacuum left by a retrenching United States.
“We are not here to pretend that we agree on everything,” Mr. Tusk, the European Council president, told attendees on Sunday. “But we face common challenges and have shared interests.”
Both camps, though, were weakened by internal division. The Cairo-based Arab League has been reduced to little more than a talking shop, and the Europeans are squabbling over how to handle illegal migration, even if migration has fallen to a seven-year low.
Not every Arab country sent its leader. The Europeans prevented President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges, from attending.
Saudi Arabia was represented by King Salman, 83, on his first foreign trip in 16 months, an interval that heightened speculation that his health or his mental capacities were declining.
Those suspicions intensified during the king’s address to the summit, when he lost his place in his text, fumbling for 16 seconds and asking an aide about what he had already read, according to a live broadcast of the remarks. He continued, as the other delegations sat stone-faced, but fumbled again a minute later.
Mr. el-Sisi, though, visibly basked in the spotlight of his diplomatic triumph. One newspaper on Monday featured a full-length photo of Mr. el-Sisi surrounded by European and Arab leaders. In a speech on Sunday, he warned that terrorism was spreading like a “cursed plague.”
His counterterrorism tactics are under heightened scrutiny since the execution on Wednesday of nine people convicted of the killing of Hisham Barakat, Egypt’s chief prosecutor, in a bomb attack in 2015. Human rights groups said the men’s confessions had been extracted under torture and their trials were deeply flawed.
Mr. el-Sisi defended the executions on Monday. “When a human being is killed in a terrorist act, the families tell me that we want the right of our children and their blood,” he told reporters. “This culture exists in the region and that right must be given through the law.”
In an editorial, the London-based newspaper Al-Quds al-Arabi accused European leaders of shamefully endorsing Mr. el-Sisi’s repression. Mr. Tusk, the European Council president, said he insisted on human rights being included in the summit’s final declaration.
Still, Egypt’s most powerful supporters are not in Brussels but in Washington. When Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited Egypt in January, he lavished praise on the Egyptian leader but made only a cursory mention of human rights.
Ultimately, the optics of Monday’s summit are less important than the follow-through by European countries, said Andrew Stroehlein, the European media director at Human Rights Watch. “We rarely say countries should never meet with a dictator or a bad guy,” he said.
“Sisi’s government is running a systematic torture system that probably amounts to crimes against humanity,” he continued. “But does that mean that not talking to him will change that calculation? Or should you meet him and bring human rights issues to the table, addressing them openly?”
WASHINGTON — An American airstrike in Yemen last week killed one of the suspected plotters of the deadly Qaeda bombing of the United States Navy destroyer Cole in 2000, President Trump and military officials confirmed on Sunday.
On Friday, the military’s Central Command said it had conducted a strike on Tuesday in the Marib Province of Yemen that targeted the militant, Jamal al-Badawi, but added that it was still assessing whether he had been killed. By Sunday, the military was confident that Mr. Badawi was dead, Capt. Bill Urban, a spokesman for the command, said in an email.
“Our GREAT MILITARY has delivered justice for the heroes lost and wounded in the cowardly attack on the USS Cole,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday before flying to Camp David for meetings with White House staff. “We have just killed the leader of that attack, Jamal al-Badawi. Our work against al Qaeda continues. We will never stop in our fight against Radical Islamic Terrorism!”
Central Command soon tweeted a confirmation of Mr. Badawi’s death.
Mr. Trump’s comments came amid mounting criticism over an impending third week of a partial government shutdown and after his national security adviser, John R. Bolton, speaking to reporters, appeared to reverse course on the president’s order last month to withdraw American troops from Syria.
Mr. Badawi, who was believed to be in his 50s, was indicted by a federal grand jury in 2003 over his role in the attack on the Cole. He escaped from prison in Yemen twice, in April 2003 and in February 2006. There has been a $5 million reward for information leading to his arrest.
On Oct. 12, 2000, two suicide bombers in a skiff detonated nearly 1,000 pounds of explosives alongside the Cole, a guided-missile destroyer, as it was refueling in the port of Aden, on Yemen’s southern coast. The blast killed 17 sailors, wounded 39 others and ripped open a 40-foot-by-40-foot blackened gash in the warship’s port side.
The bombing foreshadowed the even deadlier attacks by Al Qaeda in Washington and New York on Sept. 11, 2001.
BASILAN, the Philippines — Across the islands of the southern Philippines, the black flag of the Islamic State is flying over what the group considers its East Asia province.
Men in the jungle, two oceans away from the arid birthplace of the Islamic State, are taking the terrorist brand name into new battles.
As worshipers gathered in January for Sunday Mass at a Catholic cathedral, two bombs ripped through the church compound, killing 23 people. The Islamic State claimed a pair of its suicide bombers had caused the carnage.
An illustration circulated days later on Islamic State chat groups, showing President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines kneeling on a pile of skulls and a militant standing over him with a dagger. The caption on the picture sounded a warning: “The fighting has just begun.”
The Islamic State’s territory in Iraq and Syria, once the size of Britain, has shriveled after four years of American-backed bombing and ground combat by Kurdish and Shiite militia fighters. What is left is a tiny village in southeast Syria that could fall any day.
But far from defeated, the movement has sprouted elsewhere. And here in the Mindanao island group of the southern Philippines, long a haven for insurgents because of dense wilderness and weak policing, the Islamic State has attracted a range of militant jihadists.
“ISIS has a lot of power,” said Motondan Indama, a former child fighter on the island of Basilan and cousin of Furuji Indama, a militant leader who has pledged fealty to the group. “I don’t know why my cousin joined, but it’s happening all over.”
The group first made a big push for southern Philippines recruitment in 2016, circulating videos online beckoning militants who could not travel to its self-proclaimed caliphate in Iraq and Syria. Hundreds of fighters poured in from as far away as Chechnya, Somalia and Yemen, intelligence officials said.
The next year, militants who had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State took over the city of Marawi in Mindanao. By the time the army prevailed five months later, the largest Muslim-majority city in the country lay in ruins. At least 900 insurgents were killed, including foreign fighters and Isnilon Hapilon, the Islamic State’s East Asia emir.
Mr. Duterte declared victory over the Islamic State. But his triumphalism apparently has not deterred its loyalists from regrouping.
“ISIS has money coming into the Philippines, and they are recruiting fighters,” said Rommel Banlaoi, chairman of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research. “ISIS is the most complicated, evolving problem for the Philippines today, and we should not pretend that it doesn’t exist because we don’t want it to exist.”
Since the Jan. 27 cathedral bombing on the island of Jolo, the Philippine military has responded with airstrikes and 10,000 soldiers in Jolo, according to Col. Gerry Besana, spokesman for the regional military command in the city of Zamboanga.
American surveillance drones monitor the southern Philippine archipelago, where the nation’s Muslim minority is concentrated and local insurgencies have long battled the Christian-majority state.
But even as the military offensive intensifies, the government avoids conceding that the Philippines is in the global slipstream of Islamist extremism. Top officials have played down incidents in which the Islamic State has sent foreign fighters and financing to the Philippines for deadly attacks. The violence, they often say, is squabbling between Muslim clans, or common banditry.
Within a week of the Jolo cathedral bombing, the police declared the case solved, blaming a local militant group, Abu Sayyaf, with scant acknowledgment of how many of its insurgents have partnered with the Islamic State.
Visiting the Jolo cathedral, Our Lady of Mount Carmel, Mr. Duterte and his entourage trampled over evidence, church officials said. Forensic investigators were kept from the crime scene for days. Dogs gnawed on body parts.
“We are asking for an independent investigation because it was too quick, too soon to say it’s a closed case,” said Jefferson Nadua, a parish priest. “This is a serious matter that needs to be looked at more deeply because the threat is not just local. It’s maybe coming from outside, from ISIS.”
For decades, local insurgencies like Abu Sayyaf, which launched a campaign of bombings and beheadings, have thrived in the lawless wilderness and seas stretching toward Malaysia and Indonesia.
In the 1990s, after Filipinos returned from the mujahedeen battlefields in Afghanistan and hard-line madrassas in Yemen and Saudi Arabia, local grievances fused with global calls for jihad. In a crescent-shaped swath of Southeast Asia, militants dreamed of a caliphate free of secular governance.
Jemaah Islamiyah, the Qaeda offshoot that killed more than 200 people in a Bali nightclub in 2002, trained recruits in Philippine jungles.
Later, as the Islamic State constructed its caliphate in the Middle East, it connected disparate militants in the Philippines under one ideological banner, said Sidney Jones, the director of the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict in Jakarta, Indonesia.
“The government didn’t recognize its strength in attracting everyone from university-educated students to Abu Sayyaf kids in the jungle,” Ms. Jones said. “Whatever happens to the pro-ISIS coalition in Mindanao, it has left behind the idea of an Islamic state as a desirable alternative to corrupt democracy.”
Basilan officials say the island is now safe from the Abu Sayyaf separatists who began their fight in 1991. No foreign fighters are hiding in the jungles, the local authorities insist, and they claim that the rebels have been reduced to about 20 trapped stragglers.
But Colonel Besana puts the overall number of militants on Basilan at perhaps 200, and their leader has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State.
Mr. Indama, the former fighter who says he left Abu Sayyaf last year because he rejected the Islamic State’s ideology, claimed he saw foreign operatives in the Basilan jungle camps.
The idea that no overseas fighters have stolen onto Basilan was shattered last July when it was the site of the first suicide bombing in the Philippines.
The Islamic State claimed that the attack, which killed 11 people, had been the work of a Moroccan recruit. The Philippine authorities initially denied the attack had been by a suicide bomber, much less a foreigner. Weeks later, they admitted it had been carried out by a German-Moroccan suicide bomber.
Last year, a Spaniard was arrested in Basilan with bomb-making materials. An Egyptian carrying $19,000 in cash was also stopped on his way to Basilan, according to Mujiv Hataman, the governor of the autonomous Muslim region of the Philippines.
Mr. Hataman, who travels by armored convoy, expressed worry that if the bombing raids intensify in Jolo, militants will slip undetected into Basilan via small boats. Already, they travel among Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines over poorly patrolled seas.
“One problem goes away and another starts,” Mr. Hataman said.
Interior Secretary Eduardo Año has blamed the Jolo attack on an Indonesian couple, although Indonesian investigators say there is little evidence.
Colonel Besana acknowledged that a number of foreign fighters were hiding in the Jolo hills, under the command of Hatib Hajan Sawadjaan, who is believed to have replaced Mr. Hapilon as the regional Islamic State emir.
The Islamic State’s lure seems never far from the surface in the southern Philippines. At a government ceremony in Basilan where houses were awarded to former Abu Sayyaf rebels under a long-gestating peace deal to bring autonomy to the Muslim south, security was so heavy that they were outnumbered by Philippine soldiers.
Jem Habing, 22, a former Abu Sayyaf fighter who said he had joined at age 11, like many children in his village, seemed noncommittal when asked if he might rejoin.
“They convinced me that if you die in battle, you will be rewarded in the hereafter,” he said. “They said it was the right path.”
WASHINGTON — All American troops would withdraw from Afghanistan over the next three to five years under a new Pentagon plan being offered in peace negotiations that could lead to a government in Kabul that shares power with the Taliban.
The rest of the international force in Afghanistan would leave at the same time, after having mixed success in stabilizing the country since 2001. The plan is being discussed with European allies and was devised, in part, to appeal to President Trump, who has long expressed skepticism of enduring American roles in wars overseas.
The plan calls for cutting by half, in coming months, the 14,000 American troops currently in Afghanistan. It would task the 8,600 European and other international troops with training the Afghan military — a focus of the NATO mission for more than a decade — and largely shift American operations to counterterrorism strikes.
[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]
Various elements of the plan were shared with The New York Times by more than a half-dozen current and former American and European officials. It intends to help talks with the Taliban that are being led by Zalmay Khalilzad, the American special envoy.
So far, the plan has been met with broad acceptance in Washington and NATO headquarters in Brussels. But American officials warned that Mr. Trump could upend the new plan at any time.
And officials said that even if the peace talks broke down, the United States would go forward with shifting to counterterrorism missions from training Afghan forces.
Until the final withdrawal, several thousand American forces would continue strikes against Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, including on partnered raids with Afghan commandos. The counterterrorism missions, and the military’s dwindling presence, are also critical to allowing the C.I.A. to operate in Afghanistan.
Lt. Col. Koné Faulkner, a Pentagon spokesman, said no decisions had been made as peace talks continued. The Defense Department “is considering all options of force numbers and disposition,” Colonel Faulkner said.
But European allies said they had been consulted about the proposal — a stark contrast to Mr. Trump’s surprise announcement in December to withdraw American forces from Syria.
“The Europeans are perfectly capable of conducting the training mission,” James Stavridis, a retired American admiral and former top NATO commander who is now with the Carlyle Group private equity firm. “It is a smart division of labor to have the United States shift the bulk of its effort toward the special forces mission and having the Europeans do the training mission.”
Mr. Stavridis said the two missions would be coordinated, including American logistical support and military backup for the European troops.
On Monday, American diplomats met with the Taliban in Qatar in the highest-level negotiations yet, including the attendance of Gen. Austin S. Miller, the commander of the international mission in Afghanistan. The negotiations paused on Wednesday and are set to resume on Saturday.
The two sides have sought to flesh out a framework agreement, decided in principle last month, for the full withdrawal of foreign troops and assurances by the Taliban to prevent terrorist groups that seek to attack the United States from using Afghan territory as a safe haven.
The Afghan government has not been a part of the negotiations because of Taliban reluctance to talk to President Ashraf Ghani or his envoys.
The prospect of an American military withdrawal has raised fears across the world that it could lead to the fall of the Western-backed government in Kabul and a return to the extremist rule of the Taliban. Before it was ousted in 2001, the Taliban was accused of human rights abuses, prohibited girls from attending school and imposed harsh penalties on accused heretics.
American officials have said any deal to withdraw international forces from Afghanistan must involve a cease-fire agreement and the inclusion of government leaders in the negotiations.
In a speech on Thursday in Kabul, Mr. Ghani warned Afghan security forces to be prepared for possible Taliban attacks ahead of any peace deal.
“Peace is not easy; it needs courage and bilateral honor,” Mr. Ghani said.
European officials have previously said they would rapidly pull their forces from Afghanistan if the American military was shorn too small to provide logistic support. American officials said enough troops would remain — even if they were cut to 7,000 — to continue the European training mission as outlined in the Pentagon’s plan.
In some respects, the focus on counterterrorism missions in Afghanistan is an endorsement of a plan by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the Obama administration debated its own war strategy in 2009. Mr. Biden’s proposal was ultimately rejected in favor of a counterinsurgency plan, which called for training local forces and a surge of American troops, as pushed by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who was then the top commander in Afghanistan.
Taliban negotiators deeply oppose the proposal for American counterterrorism troops to remain in Afghanistan for up to five years, and officials were unsure if a shorter period of time would be accepted by the militants’ rank and file.
Scaling back the training mission could leave the beleaguered Afghan military not just vulnerable to attacks, but at risk of fracturing. In January, Mr. Ghani announced that more than 45,000 Afghan troops had died since 2014; Pentagon officials have called their casualty numbers unsustainable.
Despite pouring billions of dollars into the Afghan military for more than a decade, Pentagon audits show that a renewed effort to modernize the fledgling Afghan Air Force will most likely not be self-sufficient until the mid-2030s.
Speaking to lawmakers in December, the incoming commander for American troops in the Middle East, Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., said that Afghan forces could not sustain themselves without American and NATO support.
“I do know that today it would be very difficult for them to survive without our and our coalition partners’ assistance,” he said.
Current and former Defense Department officials said limiting American assistance to the Afghan military would require a delicate balance of providing just enough material support for the NATO training mission, known as Resolute Support, to ensure that Western allies remain invested without sacrificing counterterrorism operations.
European allies cited General Miller as describing the reduced troop levels as about “doing more with less.”
One former Defense Department official with knowledge of the talks said more American support for the training mission could be based outside Afghanistan and flown in when needed. European countries have relied heavily on American bases, supplies and other logistics throughout the war.
One German official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks, underscored how reliant Berlin’s 1,300 troops are on medical evacuation aircraft and air support provided by the United States.
British forces may take part in counterterrorism operations, but those missions are expected to nearly completely be under American command.
Laurel Miller, who was a top State Department official working on Afghanistan and Pakistan policy during the Obama and Trump administrations, said it was risky to change the military mission in Afghanistan without a peace plan in place.
“The idea of scaling down to a small CT-only mission has long been discussed in the U.S. government,” she said. But, she said, “if you stop backing up Afghan forces in their main fight, you can’t very well keep working on your narrower priorities in isolation with Afghanistan falling apart around you.”
It is also possible that international funding support for the Afghan government could end up going to the Taliban under a power-sharing agreement. But American and European officials called it critically necessary to continue funding Afghan security forces.
The track record for American-supported governments after peace treaties or troop withdrawals is shaky at best.
American-trained South Vietnamese fell to Communist forces two years after the United States withdrew from the Vietnam War in 1973. Large portions of the Iraqi Army collapsed in the face of an Islamic State offensive in 2014, just three years after the withdrawal of the American military and its trainers, necessitating a return to Iraq by international forces.
Some officials believe continued funding for the Afghan military is more important than an enduring international troop presence for the survival of Afghanistan’s government.
“As long as we continue to provide funding to the Afghan security forces in the field, I think the security forces would be very capable of keeping order in the country, particularly in a scenario where the Taliban has come in from the cold,” Mr. Stavridis said.
Starting as early as 2005, politicians have claimed to have discovered discarded prayer rugs — and perhaps even Qurans or “a lot of stuff written in Arabic” — at the southern border, hinting without evidence that Islamic migrants were entering the United States through Mexico and could pose a terrorism threat. 
Mr. Trump’s tweet revived this long-running and still unproved rumor. He was citing an interview in The Washington Examiner, a conservative newspaper, with one anonymous female rancher who lives on the border.
“I’ve never seen any Middle Easterners — I’ve seen prayer rugs out here — but I’ve never seen any myself,” the woman, whose face is obscured, said in a videotaped interview.
Asma Afsaruddin, a professor of Islamic studies at Indiana University, said that prayer rugs were meant to be kept clean and doubted that they would be deserted by practicing Muslims.
“Standing in a clean place is a requirement of Islamic prayer,” she said. “Many of these rugs have images of the Kaaba in Mecca and other religious symbols on them. For all these reasons, they would not be just casually tossed around or carelessly discarded to be desecrated by others.” 
The rancher also told The Examiner that she had heard from Border Patrol agents that migration from countries other than Mexico “has really increased in the last couple years, but drastically even in the last six months.” 
“Chinese, Germans, Russians, a lot of Middle Easterners,” she continued. “Those Czechoslovakians they caught over on our neighbor this last summer.”
Czechoslovakia split into two countries in 1993. Of the more than 300,000 people apprehended at the southern border in the 2017 fiscal year, fewer than one-half of 1 percent were from the countries the rancher listed (1,364 from China, two from Germany, eight from Russia, 61 from countries the State Department deems the Middle East, one from the Czech Republic and one from Slovakia).
“There’s a lot of people coming in from not just from Mexico,” the rancher added. “People, the general public, just don’t get the terrorist facts of that.” 
That claim echoes earlier ones from Mr. Trump: baseless warnings that “unknown Middle Easterners” had infiltrated a migrant caravan and that terrorists were pouring across the southern border.
Nowhere in the White House’s 25-page counterterrorism policy, released in October, was the threat of terrorists infiltrating the nation’s southwest border raised. And the State Department, in a September report, said there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico.
The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to requests for evidence of Mr. Trump’s claims. 
The Washington Examiner report, like most of its predecessors over the past decade, did not include any photographic evidence of the prayer rugs in question and largely relied on hearsay. 
“Along the Mexican border there have been stories of suspicious items picked up by local residents, including Muslim prayer rugs and notebooks written in both Arabic and Spanish,” former Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, warned in a March 2005 speech.
Later that year, former Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, told CBS that, during a visit to the border in Arizona, “we’ve found copies of the Quran, we have found prayer rugs, we have found a lot of stuff written in Arabic, so it’s not just people from Mexico coming across that border.”
In 2014, David Dewhurst, then the lieutenant governor of Texas, invoked prayer rugs found “on the Texas side of the border in the brush.” PolitiFact Texas rated his claim “Pants on Fire,” and noted that it could find only one photo of a purported prayer rug, presented by the conservative news outlet Breitbart. 
That photo, eight scholars and religious figures said, looked nothing like a prayer rug, and it appears to have been removed from the current version of the Breitbart article. (Perhaps, suggested Gawker, the photo was actually of an Adidas soccer jersey.)
In 2015, the right-wing outlet Judicial Watch reported, based on unnamed sources, that Muslim prayer rugs were recovered at an Islamic State training camp eight miles away from the United States-Mexico border. Federal and local officials in the United States and Mexico denied those claims.
These persistent rumors promote the message that Muslims inherently “constitute a menace and danger to our safety,” Professor Afsaruddin said. “Remember Sinbad and his flying rug in the Arabian Nights? Maybe that is what they are remembering — after all, the Arabian Nights ‘prove’ that this is how Arabs and Muslims get around — talk about enduring stereotypes from the world of fantasy!” 
The most recent news reports about prayer rugs on the southern border surfaced last summer — describing a scene in the fictional action film “Sicario: Day of the Soldado.”
Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON — Standing in the Rose Garden on Friday morning, President Trump heaped praise on Rush Limbaugh, the right-wing radio show host, who earlier in the week gave his blessing to a bipartisan spending bill that did not include the money Mr. Trump had demanded for a wall.
“This guy is unbelievable,” Mr. Trump said. “Try speaking for three hours without taking calls.”
During Mr. Trump’s 50 minutes of discursive remarks, which were ostensibly to announce a national emergency to build a wall along the southern border, the president appeared to be taking that challenge himself.
Forced to confront arguably the biggest surrender of his presidency, Mr. Trump did what he often does after a loss: respond with distraction, digression and entertainment, through a fog of words.
There was no teleprompter. He hardly looked at his notes. There was just Mr. Trump, dressed in a dark overcoat and bright blue tie, free-associating in tweetable sound bites, and setting off the furious clicks of cameras every time he gesticulated with his arms.
The president’s public schedule said nothing about an attempt to get around Congress’s rejection of his plan for a border wall — a White House handout was titled, “President Donald J. Trump’s Border Security Victory.” His Rose Garden event was billed as “remarks on the national security and humanitarian crisis on our southern border,” and he was about 40 minutes late.
When he finally emerged from the Oval Office, Mr. Trump spent another 10 minutes riffing about his administration’s successes before getting to the point of the gathering, which included his new attorney general, William P. Barr, and the secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen, sitting shoulder to shoulder with a group of “angel moms” hugging photographs of their slain relatives.
First, Mr. Trump praised his trade negotiations with China. “It’s going extremely well,” he said. But then he added, “Who knows what that means, because it only matters if we get it done.” He moved on to North Korea, expressing his excitement about a second summit meeting with Kim Jong-un, scheduled for this month in Vietnam. “We think that North Korea and Chairman Kim have a tremendous potential as an economic force and economic power,” Mr. Trump said.
After his burying-the-news preamble, Mr. Trump finally got to the point.
“So, I’m going to be signing a national emergency,” Mr. Trump said, almost as an afterthought. Anticipating blowback to a measure that he was strongly warned against by Republican lawmakers and members of his own administration, Mr. Trump immediately explained that his predecessors had made national emergency declarations for “far less important things in some cases.”
Employing a singsong voice that seemed meant to play down the significance of the separation of powers he will be testing, Mr. Trump walked through what he anticipated would be the legal ramifications of his order.
“They will sue us in the Ninth Circuit even though it shouldn’t be there,” he said. “And we will possibly get a bad ruling. And then we will get another bad ruling. And then we will end up in the Supreme Court, and hopefully we will get a fair shake and win in the Supreme Court just like the ban.”
The Rose Garden has become Mr. Trump’s chosen backdrop for pitching defeats as victories. After the House voted to repeal most of the Affordable Care Act in May 2017, Mr. Trump celebrated in the Rose Garden, with about 100 Republican lawmakers, taking a victory lap. Two months later, the measure failed in the Senate.
Then in January, Mr. Trump stepped into the Rose Garden after meeting with Republican and Democratic leadership, declaring that he was willing to let a partial government shutdown last months, or even years, if that was what it took to obtain his requested $5.7 billion for a wall. And a few weeks later, he was back in the same spot, announcing that he was reopening the government for three weeks after caving to the Democrats on his previously nonnegotiable demand for wall money.
Friday’s Rose Garden performance followed a similar script: defense by distraction.
The bill Mr. Trump signed gave him just $1.375 billion for fencing and border security, but he claimed victory over Democrats because of other funds in the measure. “They didn’t even fight us on most of the stuff,” he said. “I don’t know what to do with all the money they are giving us. It’s crazy.” But Mr. Trump did acknowledge that “on the wall, they skimped.”
He took not-at-all-veiled shots at Paul D. Ryan, the former House speaker, for failing to pass a bill when Republicans still controlled the House. “People that should have stepped up did not step up,” he said. When asked by a reporter if he was specifically referring to Mr. Ryan, the president responded: “Let’s not talk about it. What difference does it make?”
Mr. Trump waffled on whether he knew Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator, who has been harshly critical of what she regards as his lack of commitment to building the wall, or whether he liked her.
“I hardly know her,” he said, when asked if a cadre of right-wing personalities was influencing him on policy. “She is probably really nice. I just don’t have the time to speak to her.”
Mr. Trump did say he had spoken to her, just not this year. He then added that Ms. Coulter, whom he unfollowed on Twitter in December, after months of criticism, “is off the reservation.”
“Anybody that knows her understands that,” he continued. “I haven’t spoken to her. I don’t follow her.”
Mr. Trump’s own advisers have admitted that the White House lost the public relations war surrounding the 35-day partial government shutdown, but he insisted that he had, in fact, won the messaging battle. He cited a 52 percent approval rating in a recent Rasmussen poll as an example that “people get what we are doing,” even though it was an outlier from other polls, in which he averages 40.8 percent, according to the RealClearPolitics website.
“They really get it and I’m honored by it,” he added.
Mr. Trump said President Barack Obama “told me he was so close to starting a big war with North Korea.” And he said that Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, had nominated him for a Nobel Prize, although he admitted, “I’ll probably never get it but that’s O.K.”
He called on his favorite “fake news” nemesis, Jim Acosta, CNN’s White House correspondent, who pressed the president on his claim that there is a security crisis at the southern border, despite the fact that illegal border crossings have fallen in recent years, and asked him to respond to critics who said he had “concocted” an emergency.
In response, Mr. Trump pointed to the “angel moms,” as conservatives call the mothers of children who were killed by undocumented immigrants, in the front row.
“I ask the angel moms, what do you think? Do you think I’m creating something? Ask these incredible women who lost their daughters and their sons,” Mr. Trump said.
Throughout, Mr. Trump focused on grisly, specific stories while ignoring questions about why there needed to be a national emergency now, as opposed to two years ago. “That young wiseguy drove over and killed eight people,” he said of a terrorist attack in Manhattan in October 2017. “He had many people brought in because he was in the United States. It’s called chain migration.”
All in all, it was a typical Trumpian performance that had too many tangents to focus on any one thing he said.
“No notes and no net — it’s pure President Trump,” said one senior administration official describing the spectacle.
Mr. Trump ended the news conference with a personal send-off to Mr. Barr, who was sworn in on Thursday. “I want to wish our new attorney general great luck and speed,” Mr. Trump said. “Enjoy your life.”
TEHRAN, Iran — Burning American and Israeli flags, Iranians rallied after Friday prayers against the U.S.'s decision to designate the country's powerful Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization.
Thousands of worshippers came out of the mosques chanting traditional anti-U.S. slogans at such rallies of "Death to America" and "Death to Israel." Iranian state media said similar demonstrations took place in other Iranian cities and towns.
The U.S. government this week designated the Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist group to increase pressure on Iran, isolate it further and prompt authorities to divert some of the financial resources Tehran uses to fund militant activity in the Middle East and beyond.
Iran responded by designating all U.S. forces as terrorist and labeling the U.S. a "supporter of terrorism."
Also Friday, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif sent a letter to the U.N. Security Council and Secretary-General Antonio Guterres stressing that Iran would hold the U.S. accountable for any future provocations against Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, or IRGC.
According to the state-run IRNA news agency, Zarif said the U.S. and "several puppet governments will bear responsibility for dangerous consequences of the adventurism."
"The provocative move will raise tensions to an uncontrollable level and increase threats in the region," he said, adding that the Revolutionary Guard is at the forefront in fighting terrorism and extremism.
The commander of Iranian ground troops, Brig. Gen. Kioomars Heidari, said the U.S. decision was self-destructive as the Americans "have put their own forces, particularly the U.S. Central Command, in danger across the world."
LONDON — Dutch prosecutors said on Thursday that they planned to bring terrorism charges against a man suspected of killing three people on a tram in the city of Utrecht, in addition to multiple counts of murder or manslaughter.
In a statement, the public prosecutor’s office in the Netherlands suggested that the mental health of the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, was also under investigation, as well as his motives.
“It’s being investigated if the suspect acted out of solely terrorist motive or that his actions came from personal problems in combination with radicalized ideology,” prosecutors said. “The Dutch Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology will be asked to conduct an investigation of the suspect’s personality.”
Mr. Tanis, 37, is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday in his first court appearance in connection with the shootings in Utrecht.
The office said that Mr. Tanis was suspected of murder or manslaughter with terrorist intent, attempted murder or manslaughter, and threats with terrorist intent. The attack on Monday on a busy tram left three people dead and five more injured.
People in Utrecht who know Mr. Tanis, who was born in Turkey, say he was erratic and sometimes violent, and recently espoused a strict form of Islam. He had been arrested multiple times and was facing a rape charge.
The tram shooting occurred three days after 50 people were killed in attacks on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, but there was no evidence that the events in Utrecht were linked to that massacre.
Dutch prosecutors did not say what evidence pointed toward terrorism, but the police have said that a note found in a stolen car that the gunman used to flee the scene supported that suspicion. Officials have not said what was in the note.
So far, prosecutor’s office said, the evidence suggested “that the suspect did not have help from other persons during the shooting.”
An 40-year-old man whom the police have not identified publicly has been detained since Tuesday. Prosecutors said that he did not take part in the attack, but that they were still investigating whether “he possibly had a supporting role.” Others detained this week were not involved and had been released, the police have said.
Some who know Mr. Tanis and his family in the Netherlands and in Turkey have suggested that the shooting stemmed from a domestic dispute. But prosecutors and the police have said that there was no indication that he knew any of the victims.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Two years ago, James Harris Jackson, a white Army veteran, fatally stabbed a man on a dark New York City street solely because he was black.
“The racial World War starts today,” Mr. Jackson wrote in a manifesto that included an emblazoned swastika and a Crusader’s Cross. “This political terrorist attack is a formal declaration of global total war on the Negro races.”
On Wednesday, Mr. Jackson, who was about to be sentenced to life in prison without the chance of parole, attempted to rewrite that history, offering an apology.
“It never should have happened, and of course, if I could do it all over again this never would have happened for sure,” Mr. Jackson said.
The relatives and friends of the man Mr. Jackson killed, Timothy Caughman, called the white supremacist’s remarks disingenuous and insulting.
Mr. Jackson, 30, pleaded guilty last month to rare state charges of murder as terrorism and murder as a hate crime. It was the first conviction of a white supremacist on terrorism charges in New York.
Justice Laura A. Ward of State Supreme Court in Manhattan issued the maximum sentenced permitted under the law, life without parole.
“You killed a man solely because he was black and hoped to incite a race war,” Justice Ward said. “There’s no excuse for your actions.”
One of Mr. Caughman’s cousins, Richard Peek, recalled a man who was the polar opposite of Mr. Jackson.
“Tim Caughman had a heart like a blanket crocheted with a grandmother’s love: huge, warm and comforting,” Mr. Peek said, reading a statement prepared by another relative. “An individual who knew life was about caring for his family and for others. He was a man of modest means who was rich with experiences, knowledge and love.”
Mr. Jackson tapped his foot nonchalantly on the floor as Mr. Peek spoke.
Mr. Jackson’s lawyer, Frederick L. Sosinsky, said his client’s “lost soul and broken spirit permitted him to act as he never acted before.”
On St. Patrick’s Day in 2017, Mr. Jackson boarded a bus in Washington, D.C., and rode it to New York City where he believed his attack would receive the most media attention. He spent three days hunting victims.
At about 11:15 p.m. on March 20, Mr. Jackson spotted Mr. Caughman, 66, rummaging through trash on West 36th Street near Ninth Avenue. Mr. Caughman was an avid recycler who lived nearby in a room at the Barbour Hotel, which now houses formerly homeless people transitioning to permanent housing.
Mr. Jackson stabbed Mr. Caughman several times, attacking him from behind and striking several of his organs, prosecutors said. Mr. Caughman walked to a police station on West 35th Street, where officers summoned an ambulance. He died at Bellevue Hospital.
Mr. Jackson turned himself in the next day at a police substation in Times Square.
“This isn’t a regular murder case,” the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., told the court as part of his request that Mr. Jackson receive the harshest punishment under law. “By targeting Mr. Caughman, he was launching an attack against all African-Americans.”
Mr. Vance said Mr. Jackson’s internet search history suggested that he was inspired by Dylann S. Roof, a white nationalist who killed nine black parishioners in a church in South Carolina in 2015.
The judge’s sentence brought Mr. Caughman’s family and friends little solace.
“We’ll never be able to share another family moment with Timothy,” Mr. Peek said. “We’ll never get to say goodbye to our loved one. We’ll never know how much he truly suffered, or how alone he felt in his last moments. That is our life sentence.”
LONDON — A 19-year-old woman who left Britain in 2015 to join the Islamic State and who says she is nine months pregnant has told a reporter that she fled the last remaining village held by the terrorist group in Syria and wanted to return home.
But the woman, Shamima Begum, faces an uncertain future, with no clear answers about how she would get home to east London, or about whether Britain would try to prosecute her for terrorist offenses if she did.
Speaking to a reporter for The Times of London in Al Hawl refugee camp in northeastern Syria, Ms. Begum said she had left the village of Baghuz, the last speck of land under Islamic State control in Iraq and Syria, as Kurdish-led forces allied with the United States closed in. Her Dutch husband, an Islamic State fighter whom she married soon after arriving in Raqqa, Syria, surrendered to Syrian fighters allied to the Kurdish-led forces.
Ms. Begum said that she had lost two children — an 8-month-old son and a daughter who was nearly 2 — to illness and malnutrition in recent months, and that she feared for her unborn child.
“I was weak,” she said. “I could not endure the suffering and hardship that staying on the battlefield involved. But I was also frightened that the child I am about to give birth to would die like my other children if I stayed on. So I fled the caliphate. Now all I want to do is come home to Britain.”
But Ms. Begum said she did not regret traveling to Syria.
“When I saw my first severed head in a bin it didn’t faze me at all,” she told The Times of London. “It was from a captured fighter seized on the battlefield, an enemy of Islam. I thought only of what he would have done to a Muslim woman if he had the chance.”
Ms. Begum drew headlines in 2015 when she and two classmates from Bethnal Green in east London flew to Turkey from Gatwick Airport and then boarded a bus to the Syrian border. Known as the Bethnal Green girls, they became the face of young women attracted to what experts described as a jihadist girl-power subculture.
Barred from combat, the young women supported the group’s state-building efforts as wives, mothers, recruiters and sometimes online cheerleaders for violence.
British police officials said in 2015 that the women would be allowed to return home without facing charges because there was no evidence they had committed terrorism offenses, and a lawyer who represented Ms. Begum’s family urged the authorities this week to honor that promise.
But Ben Wallace, Britain’s security minister, said on Thursday that British officials would not help rescue Ms. Begum because it was too dangerous to provide consular services in Syria. And he warned that anyone who had traveled to support terrorism against the British government’s advice would, upon returning, be “questioned, investigated and potentially prosecuted for committing terrorist offenses.”
Thousands of people have been streaming out of the Islamic State’s fast-shrinking territory in recent weeks. The group once ruled an area the size of Britain, but that is now all but gone.
“The caliphate is over,” Ms. Begum said. “There was so much oppression and corruption that I don’t think they deserved victory.”
She said she had read what people in Britain thought of her, but was intent on returning home.
“I’ll do anything required just to be able to come home and live quietly with my child,” she said.
ISTANBUL — A Turkish court ordered the release of an American consular employee on Wednesday after almost two years in jail, while also convicting him of terror-related charges.
Hamza Ulucay, a translator who had worked at the United States Consulate in the southern city of Adana for over 30 years, was one of three employees of American consulates in Turkey detained over the past two years, along with several American citizens, in a growing confrontation between the two countries.
Mr. Ulucay was sentenced to four and a half years in jail for aiding an armed terrorist group, but he was ordered released with reductions for time served, the private Demiroren news agency reported.
The court, in the southeastern town of Mardin, ordered that he remain under travel restrictions that will prevent him from leaving the country, but he was able to return home on Wednesday.
The United States Embassy in Turkey had no immediate comment but diplomats have protested strongly against Mr. Ulucay’s detention, along with cases against two consular employees in Istanbul, saying the charges of terrorism were groundless.
Mr. Ulucay was detained in February 2017, and held for months before being indicted. He was accused of having links to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or P.K.K., and of trying to encourage protests, charges he denied.
His release was interpreted by Turkish news channel NTV as positive news for Turkey’s relations with the United States, although serious obstacles remain between the two countries. In particular, Turkey has criticized American policy in Syria and its support of the Kurdish militias there, and has assailed the United States for refusing to extradite Fethullah Gulen, a cleric whom Turkish officials have accused of orchestrating a coup attempt in 2016.
Of the two Istanbul consulate employees detained, one remains in jail and one is under house arrest. Although they have yet to be indicted, Turkish media have reported that they are being held in connection with terrorism.
The consular employees were detained while the Turkish government was undertaking a widespread crackdown in the wake of the failed coup attempt. Tens of thousands of security personnel and public employees have been imprisoned, as well as dozens of foreign citizens and Turks with foreign citizenship.
But the consular employees’ detention was seen more specifically as a response to  a politically embarrassing court case in New York, in which a Turkish banker from the state-owned Halkbank was charged with conspiracy to violate United States sanctions against Iran. The banker, Mehmet Hakan Atilla, was sentenced to 32 months in prison.
The American pastor Andrew Brunson was also detained for two years on charges of terrorism, which he and American officials vehemently denied. Mr. Brunson was also convicted and then released, and was allowed to leave the country in October.
At one point, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan suggested exchanging him for Mr. Gulen.
STRASBROUG — The European parliament voted on Wednesday to fine firms like Facebook, Google and Twitter up to 4 percent of their turnover if they persistently fail to remove extremist content within one hour of being asked to do so by authorities.
The measures have been brought into sharper focus since the live streaming on one of Facebook's platforms of a lone gunman killing 50 people at two New Zealand mosques in March.
The parliament voted 308 to 204 with 70 abstentions to back the proposal to tackle the misuse of internet hosting services for "terrorist purposes" .
"Companies that systematically and persistently fail to abide by the law may be sanctioned with up to 4 percent of their global turnover," it said.
A new European Parliament, to be elected on May 23-26, will finalize the text of the law in negotiations with the European Commission and representatives of EU governments, a process likely to take many months.
"There is clearly a problem with terrorist material circulating unchecked on the internet for too long," said Daniel Dalton, the parliament's rapporteur for the proposal.
"This propaganda can be linked to actual terrorist incidents and national authorities must be able to act decisively. Any new legislation must be practical and proportionate if we are to safeguard free speech," he said.
"It ...absolutely cannot lead to a general monitoring of content by the back door."
EU officials moved to regulate because they believe internet companies are not doing enough under voluntary measures, even though the first hour is the most vital to stemming the viral spread of online content. 
Facebook said it removed 1.5 million videos containing footage of the New Zealand attack in the first 24 hours after the shootings.
Worries the new rules are lacking and could be misused have been expressed by three U.N. special rapporteurs for human rights and by the EU's own rights watchdog.
Companies rely on a mix of automated tools and human moderators to spot and delete extremist content. However, when illegal content is taken down from one platform, it often crops up on another, straining authorities' ability to police the web.
In response to industry concerns that smaller platforms do not have the same resources to comply as speedily with tougher EU rules, lawmakers said authorities should take into account the size and revenue of companies concerned.
Draft measures call on the bloc's national governments to put in place the tools to identify extremist content and an appeals procedure. The one-hour rule would apply from the point of notification by national authorities.
Brussels has been at the forefront of a push by regulators worldwide to force tech companies to take greater responsibility for content on their sites. 
 (Writing By Jan Strupczewski; Editing by Kirsten Donovan)
KABUL, Afghanistan — As the United States has shifted from trying to defeat the Taliban militarily to seeking a negotiated end to the long Afghan war, American diplomats and Afghan officials alike have grappled with a basic question: Just who speaks on behalf of the Taliban, and with how much authority?
That question seemed to be answered on Thursday when the Taliban announced that one of their founding leaders, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, would serve as the new chief negotiator in high-level talks that have reached a critical stage. The appointment brought much-needed clarity and indicated that the Taliban are taking negotiations seriously, according to Western diplomats and Afghan officials.
Mullah Baradar is known as a longtime, powerful lieutenant to the Taliban’s founding supreme leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The following that Mullah Baradar commands among the Taliban’s rank and file could help make a deal negotiated by him more acceptable, officials said.
Word that a noted Taliban leader would be helping lead the talks was a sign that after an estimated eight years of sporadic negotiations, this round could actually show results. With a war now lasting more than 17 years — America’s longest — the major stakeholders have signaled they are ready for a compromise. The Taliban want the American military to pull out, and the United States is looking for security assurances.
Mullah Baradar’s appointment could also avoid some of the embarrassment of previous efforts at negotiations, like when a shopkeeper  posed as the insurgency’s second-in-command, or when a delegation claimed to represent a Taliban leader who had been dead for years.
The announcement of Mullah Baradar as the new chief negotiator came at the end of four days of talks between the Taliban and American diplomats in Doha, the capital of Qatar, the latest of several rounds.
Taliban officials and Western diplomats said Thursday that an agreement was imminent. They said that the two sides were finalizing a deal in which the Taliban would renounce ties to international terrorist groups and pledge that Afghanistan would not be used as a launching ground for attacks on the United States, as Al Qaeda did in 2001. In return, the Americans would declare a timetable for withdrawing their forces.
But on Friday, one person informed of the talks’ developments who spoke on the condition of anonymity suggested that major sticking points still remained, including demands that the Taliban declare a cease-fire and agree to meet with the Afghan government to negotiate their future role.
As talks continued, there were still grim reminders of the deadly violence. Speaking in Davos, Switzerland, the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, said 45,000 members of the country’s security forces had been killed since he took office in the fall of 2014.
A senior Taliban official, who was not authorized to speak to the news media, said the group’s negotiators had accused the Americans of escalating bombings to pressure the Taliban into a deal. He cited two airstrikes in Helmand Province in recent days that killed 29 people, most of them women and children.
“Mullah Baradar’s appointment is a big change,” said Mohammed Umer Daudzai, the Afghan president’s special envoy on peace. “He is one of the top two leaders. If he is leading the negotiations, he can make decisions more quickly.”
Mr. Daudzai said the previous leadership of the Taliban negotiating team did not have authority to make decisions, and would have had to go back to its leadership council in Quetta, Pakistan, for direction on everything.
“His presence means the process will move faster,” Mr. Daudzai said. “This is good news for the peace process.”
Taliban commanders and fighters welcomed Mullah Baradar’s appointment. One senior Taliban official said his “pragmatism” would help in a process that has many stakeholders.
Abdul Rahman, a Taliban commander in the Darqad district in Takhar Province in the north, said that Mullah Baradar had maintained his authority as one of the group’s top leaders despite spending years away in Pakistani custody.
“His decisions will be acceptable to us, and his past experience means he will handle the process well,” he said.
Believed to be in his early 50s, Mullah Baradar was close to the Taliban’s founding leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, from the 1980s, when the two fought in the same guerrilla group against the Soviet invasion. During the Taliban regime in the 1990s, he took several leadership roles, including as a governor and a senior military commander.
After the American invasion, Mullah Baradar’s name was associated with one of the first attempts at peace. A group of Taliban leaders on the run, including Mullah Baradar, delivered a letter to Hamid Karzai, who had just been appointed Afghanistan’s new leader, essentially seeking safety in return for surrender. The effort was quashed because the United States wanted to defeat the Taliban, not negotiate, news reports said.
As the Taliban regrouped into a powerful insurgency, Mullah Baradar rose to become the movement’s second-in-command and a driving force behind its military success from safe havens across the border in Pakistan.
But Afghan officials said he had established contacts with the Afghan government around 2010 in the hopes of negotiating, and that drew the wrath of the Pakistani military, which was trying to control the Taliban as a proxy. Mullah Baradar was arrested by the Pakistani intelligence agency in what was reportedly a joint raid with Americans.
During the time Mullah Baradar was in Pakistani custody, his health deteriorated, and he was described by an Afghan official who got access to see him as sedated. The question of who in the Taliban to talk to became a daunting one, leading to several bizarre episodes.
In 2010, a shopkeeper from the city of Quetta posed as the movement’s No. 2 leader then, Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, and possibly made it as far as meeting with the Afghan president. The impostor was given safe passage to Kabul by the American-led coalition, and was even flown there in an aircraft belonging to one of the coalition countries. He returned with handsome sums for his promise of cooperation.
Later, the Taliban established a negotiating office in Doha. Even though the office arranged the 2014 release of the only known American prisoner of war, Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, in exchange for several senior Taliban prisoners, doubts remained on whether that office had the clout to negotiate the long war’s endgame on behalf of the insurgency.
In 2015, after months of lobbying and pressure on Pakistan to deliver the Taliban for direct talks, Afghan officials met in a Pakistani resort town with a delegation said to be representing the Taliban leader, Mullah Omar. Days later, it was revealed that Mullah Omar had been dead for years.
Mullah Baradar’s release from Pakistani custody in October, and his role in peace negotiations, is also seen as a sign of earnest Pakistani cooperation after years of double-dealing, a result of increased economic and diplomatic pressure from the Trump administration.
On one of his first trips as President Trump’s peace envoy, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad reportedly asked for Mullah Baradar’s release, and Pakistan obliged. Pakistani security officials said the country’s prime minister and the powerful army chief were both pushing hard to help the United States with the Afghan peace process. Mullah Baradar’s release to pursue a peace deal, after the Pakistani military cracked down on him for the same thing in 2010, was seen as a sign that Pakistan was trying to change its ways.
It is still unclear just how much leverage the Pakistani Army still has over the Taliban, which have diversified their base of support by establishing relations with Iran and Russia. But Pakistani officials insist they mean business.
“Zalmay Khalilzad, on behalf of the U.S. president, asked us to facilitate in bringing Taliban to the negotiations table,” said Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, the spokesman for Pakistan’s military. “Pakistan is doing its best to make it happen.”
A 16-year-old American boy fighting on behalf of the Islamic State was captured on the battlefield in Syria, an American-backed force fighting the militants said Wednesday.
If the teenager is proved to be a United States citizen, he would be the first American minor to be caught fighting on behalf of the terrorist group overseas.
His arrest follows the capture of Warren Christopher Clark, 34, a former substitute teacher from Texas whose seizure in the same area was announced on Sunday. They are among the handful of American citizens — just five so far — who have been taken alive on the front line in the battle against the Islamic State, according to a database maintained by the Program on Extremism at George Washington University.
The militia that announced the boy’s capture, the Syrian Democratic Forces, said he was among eight foreign fighters who were apprehended this week in the last sliver of Islamic State-held territory in northeastern Syria. The others included citizens of Germany, Russia, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
United States officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and over the weekend the same militia announced the capture of what they said was another American citizen. There were indications, however, that that person might be from Trinidad, according to Simon Cottee, a senior lecturer in criminology at the University of Kent.
Mr. Cottee also said that he had a name very similar to that of the teenager said to be American in a database kept to track Islamic State fighters from Trinidad.
The captures were announced three weeks after President Trump declared “We have won against ISIS,” another name for the Islamic State, and ordered the withdrawal of 2,000 American troops from Syria.
While United States officials have estimated that 295 Americans either have joined or tried to join militant groups in Iraq and Syria, they have not said how many of those recruits successfully made it to the battle zone, nor which group they joined.
The database maintained by the Program on Extremism has identified just 55 American nationals who joined the Islamic State. That is a small fraction of the number from countries like France, from where at least 1,400 people are believed to have joined, according to the Paris-based Center for the Analysis of Terrorism.
While the 16-year-old would be the only American minor caught on the battlefield, other American teenagers have been found in Islamic State-controlled territory.
A 15-year-old girl from Kansas was repatriated from Syria, after being forced to travel to the war zone by her father. She was forcibly married to an ISIS fighter and was pregnant at the time of her capture.
And several other American teenagers have been arrested for trying to carry out attacks on behalf of the militants in the United States. Prosecuting them has proved difficult because of their age, said Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of the George Washington University Program on Extremism.
In South Carolina, for instance, Zakaryia Abdin was accused of plotting an attack against soldiers on behalf of the Islamic State at age 16. He initially pleaded guilty to a firearms offense and was sentenced to one year in a juvenile facility. Only when he tried to travel to Syria following his parole, then age 18, did the Justice Department charge him with providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization.
In New Jersey, Santos Colon, 17, pleaded guilty in 2017 to participating in a plot to kill Pope Francis during a Mass in Philadelphia two years earlier. He was released to a halfway house pending sentencing; he faces up to 15 years in prison.
“Here’s the concern with this case,” Mr. Hughes said, referring to the teenager apprehended in Syria. “How long has this young man been in Syria? Did he go early on with family? Or is it a more recent case of traveling? And he is purported to have been fighting for ISIS. It’s one thing to say it and another to prove it in a court of law, and authorities may well decide not to prosecute him given his age.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
Chinese officials gather for an annual policy session, Huawei prepares to challenge the U.S. in court and Michael Jackson fans jump to his defense. Here’s the latest: 
The annual session of the National People’s Congress begins today and trade, particularly with the U.S., is expected to dominate much of the agenda. 
The Trump administration is close to signing a trade deal with China, according to people with knowledge of the talks, that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific in exchange for changes to some of China’s economic policies that prevent American companies from operating there.
Case in point: The National People’s Congress will likely approve a string of sweeping new foreign investment rules aimed at addressing the issues that the U.S. and other Western countries have repeatedly raised with Beijing, including easing the transfer of technology to Chinese companies.
Criticism: The new law lacks any details on enforcement and some experts suggest it doesn’t go far enough.
Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer and the daughter of the company’s founder, has been staying at her luxurious six-bedroom house in Vancouver since she was granted bail in December. And she has been allowed to go shopping or even travel to nearby Richmond, albeit while under surveillance.
Her conditions contrast sharply with those of two Canadian men who were detained in China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Meng’s arrest and have been held in secret locations for months, a fact that has touched on a nerve among locals.
The Chinese authorities on Monday accused both men of espionage, ratcheting up tensions between the two countries, just days before a Canadian court is set to begin hearing whether Ms. Meng should be extradited to the U.S., where she is wanted on fraud charges.
In other Huawei news: The company is set to file a lawsuit against the American government for banning its federal agencies from using its products, according to two people familiar with the matter. The case could undermine the Trump administration’s campaign to shut out Huawei from the global market.
Jerrold Nadler, a powerful lawmaker in the House of Representatives, issued scores of demands for documents from President Trump’s cabinet, aides, businesses and associates. The letters reveal a broad Democratic investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by Mr. Trump and his administration.
Mr. Nadler did not mention the word impeachment, but twice in the last 50 years, the committee he serves on has drawn up impeachment articles based on such themes.
Other congressional committees are looking into Russian influence on the 2016 elections.
Scope: The demands went to 81 agencies, individuals and other entities, including the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the presidential inaugural committee, the White House, the Justice Department, the F.B.I. and dozens of the president’s closest aides.
The topics covered include the firing of James Comey as F.B.I. director; attempts to remove the special counsel, Robert Mueller; and Mr. Trump’s apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses.
What’s next: Mr. Nadler could follow up with subpoenas to compel testimony, but those could be challenged in court — meaning potentially long delays.
Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader, returned to the country this week after defying a travel ban, possibly setting up a showdown with President Nicolás Maduro.
“We just got through passport control and will head where our people are!” he posted on Twitter from an airport near Caracas. It was not immediately clear whether he would be detained by government security forces. But Mr. Maduro’s government has said Mr. Guaidó violated restrictions on his travel and could face arrest.
Response: As Mr. Guaidó flew into the country, large military contingents surrounded the Simón Bolívar Airport. A number of European diplomats had come to the airport to offer their support. And on Twitter, John Bolton, President Trump’s national security adviser, warned: “Any threats or acts against his safe return will be met with a strong and significant response from the United States and the international community.”
Context: When Mr. Guaidó left Venezuela on Feb. 23 to help bring much-needed aid into the country, it wasn’t clear whether he would be allowed to return. He has become a growing challenge to the Maduro government since he declared himself interim president in January.
New Zealand: Mark Taylor, who joined the Islamic State in 2014 before deciding to escape the terrorist organization in December, won’t lose his citizenship but will face charges if he returns home, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said, outlining a milder approach than the United States’ or Britain’s toward the group’s former fighters.
Hong Kong: A native man who killed his girlfriend in Taiwan and returned home can’t be charged because Hong Kong doesn’t have an extradition agreement with Taiwan. The dilemma has prompted calls to re-examine the city’s legal cooperation with other jurisdictions, including mainland China, but critics worry that a change would enable Beijing to expand its control over the former British colony.
Ted Baker: Ray Kelvin, the founder and chief executive of the British fashion chain, resigned after current and former employees accused him of inappropriate behavior, including trying to massage people in the office and asking employees for sex.
North Korea: As President Trump met with Kim Jong-un in Vietnam, North Korean hackers continued attacking American and European businesses, including banks, utilities, and oil and gas companies, according to a report by the cybersecurity company McAfee. The finding further complicates the two nations’ denuclearization negotiations.
Tornadoes: Rescue workers in the U.S. rushed to search for survivors after a cluster of storms ripped through the Southeast, from Alabama into Florida and Georgia, killing at least 23 people and leaving behind a trail of destruction.
Egypt: The country freed a prominent photojournalist, Mahmoud Abou Zeid, who spent five and a half years in prison for taking pictures during 2013 protests in Cairo after the military’s takeover of the country. Mr. Abou Zeid vowed to continue his work despite a five-year probation during which he has to spend every night at the police station.
Google: After conducting an internal wage equity study, the company found it was underpaying more men than women for similar work, a surprising conclusion that contrasted with the broader experience of women working in Silicon Valley.
Napalm: Our tech columnist Kevin Roose weighs in on a fierce debate rippling through Silicon Valley over whether technology companies should work with the U.S. military, citing one of “the most notorious military contracts of the past century” — Dow Chemical’s decision to produce napalm during the Vietnam War.
Michael Jackson: After the debut on Sunday of the first half of the HBO documentary “Leaving Neverland,” which includes allegations of sexual abuse against the pop star, Jackson’s fans came out in full force with what they viewed as evidence exonerating the singer. The director of the documentary called them “the Islamic State of fandom.”
T. rex: The dinosaur has helped foster a surge in paleontology over the last 20 years, with rising numbers of researchers and new fossils, as well as increasing sophistication in techniques used to study finds. Among the discoveries around the predator potentate were its size range (early tyrannosaurs were as small as chickens) and its short life span.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Celebrate Mardi Gras with beignets and a muffuletta.
Traveling can wreak havoc on your fitness, but our experts suggest six products to help you work out on the road.
Your collectibles, from fine wines or shrunken heads, may be worth more than you think. Here are five ways to figure out the value of your assets.
King cake is no ordinary cake. A Mardi Gras tradition, the circular pastry shines with stripes of sugared New Orleans Carnival colors: purple for justice, gold for power and green for faith.
It’s stuffed with fruit and pecans — and a plastic baby that brings luck to the finder (along with the responsibility to provide the next year’s cake).
The notion of embedding an object in cake dates at least to the Roman Empire. In the Saturnalia, a predecessor of Christmas, it was not a plastic baby but a fava bean. Whoever received the slice containing the bean ruled the day.
But the Romans also associated fava beans with death. That might be because of a genetic disorder most common in the Mediterranean, which creates an often lethal bean allergy.
So perhaps eating a cake with a fava bean was a morbid joke, a moment on the edge, or what could be thought of as letting the good times roll.
James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. 
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
DUBAI — Iran said on Monday that the designation by the United States of its elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization could endanger peace and stability in the Middle East and globally, state TV reported.
"This unwise and illegal measure is a major threat to regional and international stability and peace ... Iran labels the American regime as a supporter of terrorism," Iran's Supreme National Security Council said in a statement. 
 (Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by Catherine Evans)
Pakistan and India, two nuclear armed states, have fought many wars since our partition in 1947. Our militaries have faced off in 1947, 1965, 1971 and 1999. Between those wars, there have been numerous skirmishes, cross-border strikes and accusations of covert support for terrorism. 
I have never seen my country at peace with its neighbor. But never before have I seen a war played out between two nuclear-armed states with Twitter accounts.
On Feb. 14, a suicide bomber hit a convoy of paramilitary forces in Indian-controlled Kashmir. Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group based in Pakistan, claimed responsibility for the attack. India accused Pakistan of orchestrating the bombing. Pakistan denied the allegation and maintained that it would act on intelligence shared but that none had been given.
On Tuesday, India flew fighter planes across Pakistani territory, engaging the Indian and Pakistani Air Forces in dogfights for the first time since 1971. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, up for re-election in two months time, claimed to have hit a terrorist training camp in the Balakot area in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province in northwestern Pakistan, killing 300 militants. Pakistan’s military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, denied the claims, saying that Indian war planes dropped their payloads without causing any casualties or damage to infrastructure.
On social media, Indian journalists celebrated the strike with glee; Bollywood stars who have only play-acted in wars sent their Twitter congratulations: “mess with the best, die like the rest,” tweeted Ajay Devgn. “What an explosive morning!” Raveena Tandon cheered. Kangana Ranaut, promoting a film, weighed in that barring Pakistani artists from Bollywood “is not the focus, Pakistan destruction is,” and any voices calling for peace and restraint were immediately labeled traitors. Hashtags were thrown in the air like confetti: #indiastrikesback, #terroristanpakistan, #pakapologist.
In Pakistan, for once, there was more sober reflection. While some called for revenge, many Pakistanis, myself included, refused to cheerlead for war. There were, of course, odd voices in between. Hamid Mir, a Pakistani journalist, visited the village of Jabba in the Balakot area the next day and standing in a lush, leafy forest reported that there was no infrastructural damage visible, no funerals, no blood and no bodies. He then corrected himself, and pointed to a dead black crow.
Today we stand on the precipice of further violence and escalation. Pakistan claims to have shot down two Indian jets that flew over its airspace, and says it had one Indian Air Force pilot in custody. Right-wing trolls who proliferate across the border quickly trended #pakfakeclaim before the Indian government confirmed the pilot’s capture. 
While some Pakistani commentators rushed to match their Indian counterparts’ gloating — #Pakistanstrikesback (no points for originality) — and shared video clips of cheering and slogan-shouting, many of us continue to refuse to hashtag our country down the path of nuclear war.
Pakistan’s recent history has been bloody, and no one has suffered that violence more than its own citizens. But our long history with military dictatorships and experience of terrorism and uncertainty means that my generation of Pakistanis have no tolerance, no appetite, for jingoism or war. In the afternoon, #saynotowar began to trend in Pakistan, before hitting the worldwide No. 1 spot on Twitter.
Even Prime Minister Imran Khan, of whom I have long been a vocal critic, surprised me when he appeared on television in the afternoon and called for peace. “My question to the Indian government is that with the weapons we both have, can we afford a miscalculation? If it escalates, where will it go?” Mr. Khan asked. It is the only moral stand that either country can take.
Both India and Pakistan have a duty to maintain that profoundly moral stand at a time when hysteria is at a high. A 2007 report written by a co-founder of the antinuclear organization Physicians for Social Responsibility found that a nuclear war between India and Pakistan could result in the deaths of one billion to two billion people around the world from starvation and disease. 
I and many other young Pakistanis have called upon our country to release the captured Indian pilot as a gesture of our commitment to peace, humanity and dignity. We have spent a lifetime at war. I do not want to see Pakistani soldiers die. I do not want to see Indian soldiers die. We cannot be a subcontinent of orphans.
My generation of Pakistanis have fought for the right to speak, and we are not afraid to lend our voices to that most righteous cause: peace.
A photo published by The Times on Tuesday, showing some of the dead victims of an attack in Nairobi, Kenya, led to a swift backlash among some of our readers. 
Many readers thought it was inappropriate to include an image of bloody bodies slumped over tables in our article about the assault, which was committed by the Islamic extremist group Shabab.
Readers, including many Kenyans, also questioned whether The Times would publish similarly horrific photos after an attack in the United States or elsewhere in the West. 
“These are not just bodies. These are people whose family and friends are reading your article and experiencing indelible trauma from seeing their loved ones’ photos,” Lorna Kagecha wrote in an email to The Times. “We do not see this kind of nonsense when you write articles on attacks in the Western world.”
While many social media users blamed our incoming East Africa bureau chief, Kimiko de Freytas-Tamura, for posting the image, she played no role. As with any article, decisions about photography are made by editors in New York or elsewhere, not by reporters.
The publication of graphic images is never taken lightly at The Times. Many people across the newsroom are involved in difficult conversations, weighing the desire to be sensitive and respectful of victims and their families with our mission to give readers a clear view of what’s happening in the world.
To provide more insight into the decisions behind publishing graphic photos, Meaghan Looram, our director of photography, and Marc Lacey, our National editor and former foreign correspondent based in Nairobi, have answered questions drawn from reader feedback. 
We welcome you to continue the conversation in the comments section.
What considerations went into choosing the photos in this article? Why did you decide to run the image of dead bodies?
MEAGHAN LOORAM Let me first say that editors in New York made the decision on which images to publish with the story. Our reporter did not have any input into this decision.
Our editors always take into consideration the newsworthiness of the story and our responsibility to our readers to honestly convey the events of the world, horrific and disturbing as those events may sometimes be. 
We look at the universe of images available from any given event, and we try to make a decision that both serves our readers and respects the dignity of those affected by the attack or event. 
Generally, we try to avoid identifying victims or showing unnecessary blood and gore, particularly if it is not central to the news story that the photograph accompanies. 
But it is an important part of our role as journalists to document the impact of violence in the world, and if we avoid publishing these types of images, we contribute to obscuring the effects of violence and making debates over security and terrorism bloodless. 
We believe that our coverage contributes to national and global discussions on national security, foreign policy, America’s role in international conflicts, gun violence and terror. If we shy away from showing the real consequences of some of these policies, then we are doing our readers, and even those who make some of these policy decisions, a disservice. 
This year, some of the most disturbing and moving images we published showed starving children in Yemen, a consequence of a yearslong war. Senator Dick Durbin brought an enlarged poster of Tyler Hicks’s photograph of Amal Hussein, a 7-year-old girl who ultimately died of starvation, to the floor of Congress to argue for withdrawal of United States support for this conflict. The Senate later voted to withdraw American aid, the Saudi-led coalition paused its offensive, and peace talks began. 
But these decisions are always tough.
MARC LACEY To give you a sense of how difficult these decisions are, there are people in the newsroom who felt in retrospect that we shouldn’t have run the Nairobi photo.
At one point early on, the top photo on the article was the one with dead bodies in it. When and why was it changed? 
LOORAM One of the considerations we weigh in publishing images like this is the prominence of the photo’s placement on our platforms and on social media. 
In this situation, we did not promote the photo on our social media accounts because it was so disturbing. As we listened to our readers’ concerns about the photo, we also decided to move the image to a less prominent position in the article.
Do you apply the same rules to your reporting on mass shootings in the United States and terrorist attacks in the West as you do to attacks in other parts of the world? Some readers have accused The Times of publishing far fewer graphic images of victims who are white or non-Western. 
LOORAM We do endeavor to apply the same rules to our choice of images from attacks in any part of the world. But these are weighty decisions, considered on a case-by-case basis by individuals. 
It is important that as journalists, we carefully evaluate whether or not we may be applying any unconscious bias or varying standards to these decisions. 
We have published images of victims of crime and terror attacks in the United States and other Western countries, including in this article from the Las Vegas shooting and this image from a crime scene in New York City. And here’s one, even further back, from the Oklahoma City bombing. 
Our editors are only dealing with the universe of photographs that are available from any given news event. Press photographers in the United States and other Western countries do not always have the same access to crime scenes as those in the developing world. 
I personally can’t recall having seen any images of victims of school shootings in the United States, so it is difficult to compare the two scenarios.
LACEY If you go through the archives of The New York Times, you can find a number of photographs that depict dead Americans. They’re there, as Meaghan pointed out. But I do think we can do a better job of having consistent standards that apply across the world. 
The Times is a global news organization with readers everywhere. Gone are the days in which we can view our audience as an American one. We ought to make our standards decisions without regard to nationality. If we believe a particular type of photograph or article is too sensitive for an American audience, we ought to apply that same standard to a Kenyan audience, and a French one and a Mexican one. 
How does the fact that more than 70 percent of our audience is in the United States play into our calculations? If we thought we had a mostly Kenyan audience, would we have published the same photo?
LOORAM Historically, I think that American news organizations did tend to consider only a local or national audience, and thus may have applied different standards to material from locations broadly thought to be remote or “over there,” rather than close to home. I do think that as a global news organization, we must try to let go of this notion and make decisions based on the fact that we serve a global audience.
LACEY I lived in Kenya for five years, and I have numerous friends who still live there. My immediate thought when I heard of this attack was whether someone I knew might be a victim. For me, this was not some faraway attack. It was a horrible incident in a place I knew well. 
Do we have a consistent policy for the publication of graphic images? If not, are there plans to implement one?
LACEY As a result of the concerns from our readers that this photo raised, we’re going to convene a group of people to come up with clearer guidelines. I am going to be part of that effort. 
LOORAM The group of journalists Marc is referring to will draft a guide for editors who are faced with making these kinds of consequential decisions. 
As part of this process, we will create a set of questions to consider before publishing sensitive images. We must weigh our responsibility as journalists to help our readers see and understand the reality of the world with sensitivity to the victims and their families. We take both of these responsibilities very seriously.
It is also crucial to me as the director of photography that our editors are cognizant of issues of representation of people of color. We must not apply different standards, or give less consideration, to the dignity and humanity and pain of any group of people.
TUNIS, Tunisia — Two years ago, American Marines battled Al Qaeda militants in western Tunisia along the border with Algeria. A Marine and a Tunisian soldier were wounded and two other Marines were later commended for their valor in the gunfight.
Yet many details of the February 2017 clash remain murky, largely because of the Tunisian government’s political sensitivities over the presence of American forces in its territory.
Publicly, American officials will say only that the battle happened in a North African “host” country. The Tunisian authorities have refused to confirm that anything happened at all.
Last year, when one of the most detailed accounts of the clash to date surfaced in a report in Task & Purpose, a privately owned American website focused on military and veterans affairs, the Tunisian Ministry of Defense was dismissive. It said the “presence of American troops in Tunisia was only for cooperation and training, not conducting operations.”
But in fact, the United States and Tunisia have quietly expanded and deepened their security and counterterrorism ties over the past several years, with some 150 Americans training and advising their Tunisian counterparts in one of the largest missions of its kind on the African continent, according to American officials.
And the 2017 clash, confirmed by an American official and an American security expert, was a stark example of the risks American forces face in trying to help their North African allies battle Qaeda-linked groups.
The deepening American involvement in an array of secret missions goes largely unreported because of Tunisian and American concerns that publicizing this could attract even more extremist violence. There is also a strong aversion across the political spectrum in North Africa to Western intervention in the region.
Still the growing cooperation is notable because it comes at a time when the Pentagon is reducing its presence elsewhere on the continent, especially in West Africa, as the military shifts to focus more attention on challenges elsewhere from Russia and China.
“Tunisia is one of our most capable and willing partners,” Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, the head of the Pentagon’s Africa Command, told Congress in February.
Among the 150 Americans operating in Tunisia is a contingent of Marine Corps Special Operations forces who were involved in the 2017 gun battle.
Unarmed American surveillance drones fly reconnaissance missions from Tunisia’s main air base outside Bizerte, the northernmost city in Africa, hunting terrorists who might be seeking to infiltrate through the country’s border with Libya and other areas, American military officials said.
The United States had sought permission to fly from bases farther south, where weather conditions are better. But the Tunisians wanted the American presence to be more concealed, officials said.
There are other signs of Washington’s increasing security cooperation with Tunisia. Body armor, rifles and night-vision goggles; reconnaissance aircraft and fast patrol boats; radios and devices to counter improvised explosives: The value of American military supplies delivered to the country increased to $119 million in 2017 from $12 million in 2012, government data show.
Tunisia was the birthplace of the Arab Spring uprisings and is widely seen as the lone success story among countries that were swept up in the revolts. It emerged with a democratic system and a free society after the 2011 overthrow of its authoritarian president of 23 years, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.
Yet it has struggled to control a threat from Al Qaeda and other radical groups, which have exploited the new freedoms to radicalize followers and establish networks of cells across Tunisia.
The problem first became apparent in 2012 with an attack on the American Embassy in the capital, Tunis. Three days earlier in neighboring Libya, militants had attacked the American mission in the eastern city of Benghazi. Four Americans were killed, including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens.
Riots in Tunis and two political assassinations by a Qaeda-linked group, Ansar al-Sharia, followed in 2013. The same year, an insurgency by Al Qaeda’s North African branch began to target the military in the mountains of the Kasserine region near the Algerian border, the area where the 2017 gunfight would later erupt.
Attacks on the police escalated around the country. Then in 2015, two massacres of foreign tourists captured international attention — one at a museum in Tunis and the other at the beach resort of Sousse on the Mediterranean.
In the National Bardo Museum attack on March 18, two attackers killed 22 people, mostly tourists. Four months later, the shooting on a beach and inside a hotel in Sousse killed 39.
In March 2016, jihadists mounted an assault from Libya on police and military posts in the border town of Ben Gardane, which Tunisian forces successfully countered.
Tunisia has succeeded in dismantling most of the militant networks since 2015, according to government officials, diplomats and security analysts. But it still faces threats.
Last month, a civilian was beheaded and mines were planted near his body. Soldiers were wounded in a separate mine blast, according to the Ministry of Defense.
“The jihadist cells have completely given up the playbook of gaining the sympathy of the population,” said Matt Herbert, a director of Maharbal, a Tunisian strategic consulting firm. Now, he said, they are trying to terrorize them.
Last October, a suicide attack on Avenue Habib Bourguiba, the main street in downtown Tunis, wounded 20 people. The only person who died was the bomber, a woman identified as Mouna Guebla who was not on the authorities’ radar.
But a suicide attack in the capital set off alarm bells for the government because it came after three years of hard work and costly security investment against the terrorist networks.
Prime Minister Youssef Chahed supports the fight against terrorism. The government spends 15 percent of its budget on the defense and interior ministries for that purpose, he said recently. But he acknowledged that this had come at a cost for other pressing problems, such as poverty and unemployment.
Officials point to improvements in logistics and operations in the fight against terrorism. But the country is still struggling with its porous borders with Libya and Algeria, which serve as transit areas for Al Qaeda’s branch in North Africa and as well as the remains of Islamic State cells in Libya.
The 2017 clash involving the Marines was a reminder of the resilience of the jihadists, even amid the combined American-Tunisian efforts. In the Kasserine mountain area, only a few dozen guerrillas are active at any given time. Yet because of its proximity to the Algerian border, the Tunisian Army has struggled to secure it.
The team of Marines was on a three-day mission with Tunisian forces when it got into a “fierce fight against members of Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,” according to one of the award citations for the Marines, who were not identified. Although the Marines were said to be on a “train, advise and assist” mission, the citations made clear that they were fighting and, at times, directing events.
The United States command withheld the details of the clash for “classification considerations, force protection, and diplomatic sensitivities,” according to the report by Task & Purpose, which obtained the citations, with some details redacted, through a Freedom of Information Act request.
The award citation indicates that the Tunisian forces killed one Qaeda operative in the initial gunfight, but that the unit then came under accurate fire from the rear as the insurgents tried to outflank them and a Marine was wounded.
One Marine was commended for tending to his wounded comrade while under fire and winching him to a hovering helicopter. A second was commended for coordinating air support from the helicopter and taking over behind the machine gun when the Tunisian gunner was wounded.
In an interview with The New York Times in December, Kamel Akrout, a national security adviser to the Tunisian president, was asked about what had happened that day in the mountains of Kasserine. He would neither confirm nor deny the episode.
“We have an intense cooperation with the Americans, but also with other countries,” he said. “Although I can assure you that no Tunisian soldier would accept a foreign soldier fighting on their behalf. They are not with us during operations.”
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir loved to tell the story about his broken tooth.
As a schoolboy working on a construction site, he told supporters in January, he fell and broke the tooth while carrying a heavy load. Instead of seeking treatment he rinsed his mouth with saltwater and kept working.
Later, after he joined the army, he refused a silver tooth implant because he wanted to remember his hardships. “This one,” he said, pointing to a gap in his mouth, as supporters erupted into laughter.
The story was a way for Mr. al-Bashir, who was ousted Thursday after 30 years of iron-fisted rule over Sudan, to play up his humble origins — to show that he remained a man of the people who, like him, hailed from dusty farming villages on the Nile.
The folksy image was a jarring contrast with Mr. al-Bashir’s image in the West, where he was often seen as a heartless warmonger, as a coddler of terrorists like Osama bin Laden and as the accused architect of a genocidal purge in Darfur that killed hundreds of thousands of people. Since 2009, the International Criminal Court has sought to arrest him on war crimes charges that include murder, rape and extermination.
But global notoriety was never much of a problem for Mr. al-Bashir, 75, at home in Sudan, a vast African country with a long history of war and suffering. He outwitted rivals who underestimated him, steered a decade-long oil boom that swelled Sudan’s middle classes, and forged a network of security forces and armed militias to fight his wars that some likened to a spider’s web with Mr. al-Bashir at its center.
That carefully constructed edifice of power crumbled this week as thousands of protesters massed outside his Khartoum residence, chanting slogans and braving gunfire as rival gangs of soldiers exchanged fire. The oil money was running low, the economy was in tatters and young Sudanese, in particular, had had enough. The spider had to go.
“Just fall, that is all!” they chanted.
On Thursday morning, the military ousted him, ending his 30-year rule in the face of the sweeping demonstrations. It said it had taken Mr. al-Bashir into custody, dissolved the government and suspended the Constitution.
Representatives of the principal protest group, the Sudanese Professionals Association, which had been expecting a statement from the military and were preparing to negotiate a transition to civilian rule, greeted the announcement with disappointment.
“What has been just stated is for us a coup, and it is not acceptable,” said Sara Abdelgalil, a spokeswoman for the group. “Our request for a civilian transitional government has been ignored.”
Born into a farming family in a dusty village 100 miles north of Khartoum, the capital, Mr. al-Bashir served as a paratroop commander in the army. In 1989, he headed an Islamist junta that ousted Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi in a bloodless coup, Sudan’s fourth military takeover since independence in 1956.
For the first decade of his rule, though, Mr. al-Bashir, was seen as a frontman for a more powerful force — the cleric Hassan al-Turabi, a smooth-talking, Sorbonne-educated ideologue with sweeping ideas about embedding Shariah law deep in Sudan’s diverse society and institutions.
International jihadists flocked to Sudan in that period, among them Osama bin Laden, who bought a house in an upmarket Khartoum district and invested in agriculture and construction. In 1993, the United States blacklisted the Bashir government as an international sponsor of terrorism, and it imposed sanctions four years later.
In 1999, after a falling-out, Mr. al-Bashir outmaneuvered Mr. al-Turabi and cast him into prison. He turned back to the army to underwrite his authority, forging relationships that spanned the military, the security forces and the country’s tribal leadership.
Mr. al-Bashir assiduously attended the funerals and weddings of military officers, often sending presents of sugar, tea or dried goods to their families. He held an open house once a week where commissioned officers could drop in and meet with him, said Alex de Waal, a professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, and an expert on Sudan.
“He’s like the spider at the center of the web — he could pick up on the smallest tremor, then deftly use his personalized political retail skills to manage the politics of the army,” he said.
Mr. al-Bashir used a similar approach to manage provincial leaders and tribal chiefs, Mr. de Waal added. “Most of them became militarized and enmeshed in one of the popular defense forces. He has that extraordinary network, and it’s all in his head.”
That style of personalist autocracy was put to use in battling the insurgency in southern Sudan, where rebels from different ethnic groups with Christian or animist beliefs were fighting for independence. During the 21-year war, the Sudanese air force dropped crude barrel bombs over remote villages in the south and sided with vicious local militias recruited by Mr. al-Bashir and his officers.
At the same time, Sudan discovered oil. After the first barrels were pumped in 1999, living standards gradually rose in one of Africa’s most desperately poor countries. New roads appeared, remote villages gained water and electricity, and shiny buildings rose in Khartoum.
“Those were the fat years,” said Magdi el-Gizouli, a fellow at the Rift Valley Institute.
In 2005, under international pressure, Mr. al-Bashir signed a peace deal with the southern rebels, overcoming opposition from his hard-liners who wanted to keep fighting. But by then another uprising had erupted in western Darfur that would define his legacy.
There, a pro-government militia known as the Janjaweed cut a bloody swath through remote villages, quelling an insurgency led by rebels. At least 300,000 people are estimated to have died.
Mr. Bashir is facing two arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court for charges in the Darfur conflict that include genocide. He was the first sitting head of state to be targeted with an arrest warrant by the Hague-based court.
“This was his biggest blunder,” Mr. el-Gizouli said. “He outsourced the war to these militias, the Darfuri pastoralists. And he created a massively bloated security establishment with competing structures.”
Mr. al-Bashir was charged with crimes that included murder, rape, torture and extermination, and his villainous reputation was amplified by campaigning celebrities like the actor George Clooney who denounced him as the embodiment of a sectarian, ruthless regime. But predictions he would become “a fugitive, a man on a wanted poster,” were only partially borne out.
Defying the court, Mr. al-Bashir traveled to Kenya, Egypt, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia, although a visit to South Africa in 2015 was cut short when a court considered whether to arrest him. Some experts criticized the indictments as legally flawed and politically counterproductive.
Mr. al-Bashir portrayed himself as the victim of an international witch hunt led by an ungrateful West. He complained that the United States had reneged on its promises to lift sanctions in return for peace in the south. Buoyed by oil wealth, he swept to victory in the 2010 election, featuring posters that showed him standing proudly before new roads, dams and factories — even if 40 percent of Sudan’s people remained below the poverty line.
In 2011, South Sudan voted to secede, becoming an independent country and taking with it three-quarters of Sudan’s oil reserves. As revenues dried up, Sudan’s economy weakened badly, and Mr. al-Bashir started to face serious opposition.
Armed riot police brutally suppressed street protests against soaring food prices in September 2013, killing as many as 170 people, according to Human Rights Watch. Torture and abuse in Sudan’s jails became rampant, the group said.
Mr. al-Bashir reached wide into the region for funding and support, often flitting between rivals in search of the best deal. In 2013, he hosted the Iranian president at the time, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in Khartoum, as part of a putative courtship. Two years later, he joined an Arab alliance fighting on one side of Yemen’s war, led by Iran’s archenemy Saudi Arabia.
Last year he pivoted from his traditional ally, Egypt, to Ethiopia as part of a dispute over a giant hydroelectric dam that Ethiopia is building on the Nile. In recent months, as more protests erupted, he turned to Saudi Arabia’s Persian Gulf rival, Qatar, for help.
The lifting of American sanctions in 2017 might have helped Mr. al-Bashir. But the State Department kept Sudan on its list of terrorism sponsors, stymieing any influx of foreign investment. By 2018 Sudan’s economy was in free-fall, with an inflation rate of 72 percent, long lines at fuel stations and even a shortage of bank notes. The urban middle classes, dismayed to see their living standards collapsing, revolted.
A protest against the soaring price of bread in Atbara on Dec. 19 quickly spread to towns and cities across the country, in protests led by doctors and other professionals. Public anger grew as young doctors, some from wealthy families, were killed.
In January, Mr. al-Bashir contemptuously dismissed the protesters, telling the “rats to go back to their holes” and saying he would move aside only for another army officer, or at the ballot box.
But on the whole his forces reacted with relative restraint, killing dozens rather than hundreds of protesters. The demonstrations, often wildcat affairs in different Khartoum neighborhoods, turned into a daily occurrence.
On April 6, in their largest protest yet, demonstrators made it to the gates of Mr. al-Bashir’s home at the headquarters of the Sudanese army. The protest coincided with the anniversary of the 1985 uprising that toppled the regime of another unpopular Sudanese leader, the dictator Gaafar Nimeiry.
It was the start of the final push that led to his ouster on Thursday. His supposedly folksy touch had fully deserted him. The military and security leaders he fostered for years told him it was time to leave.
Like many military rulers, Mr. al-Bashir liked to claim that power had been foisted upon him, and that he wielded it reluctantly. “This country does not encourage anyone to enjoy power,” he said after he seized control in 1989. “This country is exhausted. It has collapsed and fallen.”
Critics say he left Sudan in much the same condition. Less clear, though, is whether his successors can change it quickly. The tattered economy needs a huge cash injection, and current conflicts in the Sudanese regions of Blue Nile or South Kordofan are unlikely to abate. Past uprisings, in the 1960s and 1980s, quickly saw a reversion to military control after a few years of erratic civilian rule.
“People want change, but Sudan’s problems are structural, not a matter of personality,” said Aly Verjee, an analyst at the United States Institute of Peace. “Even with Bashir gone, Sudan will not be healed overnight.”
President Trump may be a controversial and disruptive president. But in regard to Afghanistan, his frustration with the 17-year war differs little from the sentiments of President Barack Obama or most of the rest of us. Reportedly, he has asked for a precipitous cut of up to half the 14,000 American troops serving there, early this year.
That would be a mistake. There is still a strong case to sustain America’s longest war — especially if we redefine it, away from nation-building and toward something more like an enduring partnership with the Afghan people against regional and global extremism. Indeed, Washington should stop looking for an exit strategy and view Afghanistan as one pillar in a broader regional web of capabilities against Al Qaeda, the Islamic State and related movements that show few signs of dissipating. Over time, we can gradually reduce our forces, but we will want selective intelligence and military capabilities in South Asia for many years to come.
A United Nations report estimates the total current ISIL membership in Iraq and Syria to be between 20,000 and 30,000. And as terrorism experts Bruce Hoffman and Seth Jones have noted, most of the 40,000 foreign fighters who poured into Iraq and Syria over the past four years remain alive and well, dispersed throughout the region. 
Al Qaeda and related groups are also responsible for at least three major aircraft attacks or attempted attacks (in Egypt, Somalia and Australia) since 2015. One need not rant hysterically about existential threats to Western civilization to think that prudence would dictate retaining capacity to prevent such groups from establishing large physical strongholds anywhere, if possible. By that standard, Western counterterrorism policy since Sept. 11 has largely been a success; we should be wary of discarding what has proved to work reasonably well.
In the particular case of Afghanistan, and South Asia more generally, the newest concern is ISIS-Khorasan, or ISIS-K. In recent years, it has probably become the strongest and largest ISIS affiliate outside Syria and Iraq, and has set up shop in the mountain ranges of Afghanistan. Its stated ambitions, however unrealistic, are to establish a broader caliphate stretching from Iran to the former Soviet republics of Central Asia to India and Pakistan. These ambitions give rise to the worry that ISIS-K could someday collaborate with Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistani group that carried out the Mumbai attacks of 2008, or another apocalyptic anti-India group.
Given the foreboding geography and weak Afghan government, squelching ISIS-K might be less realistic than defeating ISIS in eastern Syria or Iraq. But with the bases we have now, we can watch and listen to this group and strike when we get a good lead on the movement of a key leader or when it gets too comfortable in any one location. As many as three of its top leaders have already been removed from the battlefield by coalition forces in the last couple of years.
This platform in South Asia complements other United States counterterrorism capabilities in the broader Middle East, especially in places where local governments are weakest and threats are greatest. American military facilities in Qatar and Kuwait and Bahrain, as well as ships in or near the Persian Gulf, support operations in Iraq and Syria. United States bases in Djibouti help us maintain vigilance over Yemen, Somalia and other parts of the Horn of Africa and Gulf of Aden region. The Sixth Fleet, and American assets in Italy, provide a watchful eye over Libya and the rest of northern Africa. 
A presence in Afghanistan in effect completes the web. Few major areas of likely terrorist concentration or activity are more than a few hundred miles away from America’s eyes and ears — and, if necessary, its commandos, drones and other tactical assets. All of this is expensive, but not inordinately so — perhaps costing roughly 30 billion to $70 billion a year, based on an analysis of estimates from the Congressional Budget Office. That’s still less than 10 percent of the Pentagon’s budget for 2019.
Today the Afghan government controls only some of its own country — about 55 percent of all administrative districts, where about 65 percent of all Afghans live, according to C.I.A. estimates. Yet it does hold all the major cities and most major roads. For narrow American counterterrorism purposes, that is probably adequate, assuming it can be sustained.
None of this is an argument for complacency. Assuming no precipitous United States and NATO withdrawal, the greatest threat to Afghanistan today is probably the enormous stresses and strains being placed on its security forces, which could crack given current trends. They have reportedly suffered more than 28,000 fatalities since 2015 as well as high desertion rates, and as a result remain overstretched. The recent heinous Taliban attack that killed several dozen intelligence personnel in Wardak Province south of Kabul is but the latest challenge. 
Several ideas can make the Afghan Army and police stronger and more resilient, however, so that this downward spiral does not accelerate. Working with the Afghan Ministry of Defense, we should try to expand a new arm of the security forces known as the Afghan National Army Territorial Force. It is recruited and operated locally. Since many Afghans prefer to defend their home territories rather than distant parts of the nation, this concept should help with recruiting and retention. 
In addition, we should encourage the Afghan government to stop trying to hold onto so many rural parts of the country. This approach, while understandable, leaves soldiers and police in sparsely manned remote outposts, often deployed for long stretches without leave and vulnerable to Taliban ambush.
There will of course be no outright victory in Afghanistan anytime soon, and any peace deal with the Taliban remains a long-shot. But the United States-NATO mission in Afghanistan can continue to protect the West from large-scale terrorist attacks originating in South Asia, while gradually declining in size in years to come. And Afghans can still sustain the patient hope that their country will stabilize and strengthen over time. 
Such goals may not sound very Churchillian. But they are what is now realistic in Afghanistan — and for core American national security interests, they may just be good enough.
WASHINGTON — Top British officials confronted a dilemma last spring. Should they offer to help the United States prosecute two British nationals accused of abusing hostages as part of an Islamic State cell in Syria? Or would the conditions of their proposal scare off the Trump administration and worsen relations?
In an internal debate over the longstanding thorny legal issues surrounding terrorism prosecutions, the officials discussed whether to share evidence to prosecute the suspects, two members of the so-called Beatles whose gruesome hostage beheadings drew widespread attention five years ago. Britain routinely seeks assurances that the Justice Department will not pursue the death penalty, which Britain has abolished.
While career law-enforcement professionals would understand and expect that stance, the British ambassador, Kim Darroch, warned London that senior Trump appointees like Jeff Sessions, Jim Mattis and Mike Pompeo and their aides would react with “something close to outrage” — risking broader damage to the countries’ close alliance.
“They already feel that we are dumping on them a problem for which we should take responsibility,” Mr. Darroch wrote last May in a message that was part of a trove of private negotiations and internal deliberations made public on Friday as part of a court ruling in London.
Mr. Darroch added, referring to Prime Minister Theresa May as P.M.: “They have been signaling to us for weeks now that we are in no position to attach any conditions to this. At best they will think we have tin ears. At worst, they will wind the president up to complain to the P.M. and, potentially, to hold a grudge.”
The next month, the British relented and told Mr. Sessions, then the attorney general, that he could have the evidence even if prosecutors sought to execute the two British nationals. But they still insisted that the suspects be prosecuted in a civilian courtroom, not by the military commissions system at the American wartime prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
A lawsuit challenging that decision was filed by the mother of El Shafee Elsheikh, who along with Alexanda Kotey was captured by an American-backed Kurdish militia in Syria a year ago. While a British court sided with the British government on Friday, she is likely to appeal, so it may be months before the case is resolved.
Mr. Elsheikh and Mr. Kotey were half of a group of British members of ISIS suspected of imprisoning and beheading Western hostages, including four Americans and Britons. Their captives labeled them “the Beatles” for their accents. The leader of the group, known as Jihadi John, was killed in an American drone strike, while a fourth is imprisoned in Turkey.
The two are among hundreds of ISIS fighters held by the Kurds. The prisoners hail from dozens of countries, including many from Europe, that have been reluctant to repatriate them. The court ruling illustrates the problems facing many of those countries: The Americans got involved because British prosecutors decided the evidence was insufficient for charges under British law.
The United States has more expansive laws for incarcerating people who joined terrorism groups, including the offense of providing material support to a terrorist organization. It also operates the Guantánamo prison, where it holds several dozen terrorism suspects without charges and is trying to prosecute a handful through the troubled military commissions system.
Like many European allies, Britain strongly opposes the Guantánamo prison. Mrs. May’s government was afraid that the Trump administration might send the two British men there, a recurring theme in the ruling.
Last March, the ruling said, the British home secretary at the time, Amber Rudd, met with Mr. Sessions to discuss the case: “In the course of those discussions, he expressed the view that all foreign terrorist fighters should be prosecuted in their home countries. He referred to them as ‘prisoners of war,’ and to Guantánamo Bay as the appropriate place of detention for prisoners of war.”
After discussions with Justice Department officials in April, the British security minister, Ben Wallace, internally argued against pushing for assurances against the death penalty, saying that he had been warned that “there were strong voices arguing for Guantánamo” and that “the more restrictions the U.K. attached to support, the harder it would be to avoid that outcome.”
And on May 30, when the new British home secretary, Sajid Javid, met with Mr. Sessions, the attorney general said that “if the U.S. were to be willing to try Elsheikh in a civilian court as opposed to a military one, he could not see how the U.S. could do that without the U.K. evidence or without recourse to the death penalty.”
Ultimately, Mr. Javid told Mr. Sessions in June that the United States could have the evidence without death-penalty conditions, so long as it was not introduced in the military commissions system. That concession by the British appears to have persuaded senior Trump administration officials to focus on an eventual civilian trial in the Eastern District of Virginia on charges that would most likely include conspiracy in kidnapping resulting in death, an offense that carries the death penalty, according to officials familiar with internal deliberations.
Both Mr. Sessions, who was fired in November, and John R. Bolton, who became President Trump’s national security adviser in April, have agreed that a civilian trial is now seen as the most likely venue, according to former American officials. The family members of the victims had strongly pushed for that outcome. In a meeting with Mr. Bolton in late April, he was visibly emotional and pulled out a handkerchief in response to the families’ arguments, according to several people familiar with the meeting.
The British government immediately shared “a large number of witness statements” about the two men with the Justice Department, though testimony from British government officials would also probably be necessary at any trial. But after word of Mr. Javid’s move leaked to a British newspaper, Mr. Elsheikh’s mother filed the lawsuit.
Diane Foley, the mother of James Foley, whom ISIS beheaded in August 2014 in a video it posted for propaganda, said she was encouraged by the court’s ruling but suspected it would be months before the issue was resolved.
“The British are standing with us,” Ms. Foley said. “I think that it’s very important as a country we hold them accountable using our federal criminal courts so it can be an open, transparent process.”
Her son, a freelance journalist covering the civil war in Syria, was abducted in November 2012 along with a British photojournalist named John Cantlie, who has also been displayed in propaganda videos. Mr. Cantlie was thought late last year to still be alive but sick, according to officials familiar with intelligence about ISIS.
WASHINGTON — A federal judge on Monday rejected a request that he speed up consideration of a lawsuit filed on behalf of Hoda Muthana, an American-born woman who joined the Islamic State group in 2014 and is now stranded in a refugee camp in Syria with her 18-month-old son, the child of a slain ISIS fighter.
But the judge, Reggie Walton of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, also suggested that he took a positive view of legal arguments that Ms. Muthana may be an American citizen, contrary to the government’s declaration that she is not one.
The fate of Ms. Muthana, whose family lives in Alabama, has raised novel legal issues and become a political flash point since she surrendered to coalition forces fighting ISIS and said last month that she wanted to come home. In response, the Trump administration said she was not a citizen and would not be allowed back.
The judge’s ruling that there are insufficient grounds to expedite the litigation means that her case is unlikely to be resolved until late spring or summer. But his comments also provide a reason to believe that she may ultimately prevail. Charlie Swift, a lawyer hired by her father, said after the hearing that he was “encouraged” by Judge Walton’s views and hoped it was “foreshadowing” of the outcome.
In 2015, Ms. Muthana withdrew from college and used her tuition reimbursement to fund her travel to Syria. Once there, she touted ISIS’s ideology on social media, including calling on Muslims in America to carry out terrorist attacks. But she now says she is sorry and wants to come home; Mr. Swift said she had wanted to leave earlier but feared being executed if she tried to leave.
The State Department canceled her passport in 2016 — under the Obama administration — and the Justice Department is taking the position that she does not qualify to be an American citizen under an exception to birthright citizenship in the Constitution for children of foreign diplomats.
Ms. Muthana’s father was a diplomat from Yemen, but was discharged from that post shortly before she was born. The United States government only learned of that change after she was born, raising the question of whether his diplomatic status expired before or after her birth.
Her father has filed a lawsuit asking for declarations that she remains a citizen and that he may send her money without violating the law. He is also asking Judge Walton to order the government to take steps to take custody of her and his grandson from the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces now holding them and to bring them to American soil.
On Monday, Mr. Swift argued that Ms. Muthana and her son are in danger, including because other ISIS members now see her as a heretic. He also said Mr. Trump’s intention to withdraw troops from Syria means the window of opportunity for the American government to get her out may be closing. And he emphasized that she would likely be prosecuted if she returns.
Mr. Swift also said the Justice Department’s argument that a discharged former diplomat keeps his status until the United States government is notified of the change would produce absurd results, like letting former diplomats remain immune from prosecution for crimes committed during any lag period.
Foreign adversaries could exploit such a rule, he said, by quietly discharging diplomats while instructing them to commit espionage or sabotage. If such operatives were caught, they would have legal impunity while permitting those foreign governments to deny any responsibility.
Judge Walton said he had decided to handle the case on the normal timetable because the arguments that Ms. Muthana faced irreparable harm from delay were too speculative. But he also said Mr. Swift had offered good arguments for why it “didn’t make sense” to interpret diplomatic status as lingering after a discharge if the American government does not receive notice right away.
Last month, Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, said Ms. Muthana should return to the United States and be prosecuted. Americans who joined ISIS — or were arrested as they tried to travel to Syria — have been routinely charged and convicted of providing material support to terrorism.
But President Trump said he had directed the government not to allow her back, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a statement declaring that she “is not a U.S. citizen and will not be admitted into the United States.” In an interview with Gray News broadcast Sunday night, Mr. Pompeo reiterated that Ms. Muthana is not welcome back.
“She has no right to come back to the United States of America,” he said. “She’s not a U.S. citizen. She has no claim for U.S. citizenship. That’s what we’ll be telling the court because that’s the truth.”
President Trump’s declaration that Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps is a foreign terrorist organization is the first time the United States government has designated a part of another country’s military as that type of threat. In doing so, Mr. Trump took broad aim at a pillar of the Iranian state, which exerts enormous influence in politics and the economy as well as in Iran’s internal and external military policies.
Mr. Trump said the Revolutionary Guard Corps “actively participates in, finances and promotes terrorism as a tool of statecraft.”
The Iranian government has used the Guard Corps internationally to create, train, arm and sometimes plot strategy for paramilitary forces and nonstate actors in other countries. Iran’s adversaries have accused elite Guard Corps units of having plotted and sometimes carried out assassinations in foreign countries.
Since many businesses are linked to the Guard Corps — it is thought to have ties to companies that do more than $20 billion worth of business annually, according to estimates by British and American research groups — the sanctions could touch many businesses outside Iran.
Iran’s enemies, notably Israel and Saudi Arabia, which have long feared the power of the Guard Corps, welcomed Mr. Trump’s announcement. But those who have relied on Iran’s help, including Iraq, worried about how the new sanctions might make even more fraught its balancing act between the United States and Iran.
Founded in the early days of the 1979 Iranian revolution that brought Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to power, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps started as a military force assigned to safeguard the new government and Mr. Khomeini, who as supreme leader was Iran’s most powerful theological and political figure. The Guard Corps reported directly to Mr. Khomeini and later to his successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, so its power cannot easily be checked by Iran’s other institutions.
Since its founding, the Guard Corps has vastly expanded and now constitutes one of the three main branches of Iran’s armed forces, along with the army and the police.
The Guard Corps has more than 125,000 active duty personnel and controls a paramilitary force known as the Basij, according to a survey by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a British research group. The Basij often has been used to repress antigovernment protesters, according to Iranian dissidents and others.
The Guard also has specialists in ballistic missile technology and asymmetric warfare, along with its own air force, navy and intelligence service. Critics accuse the Guard’s intelligence operatives of tracking down anyone deemed an enemy of the state.
While the army defends Iranian territory, the Guard was set up to safeguard against internal uprisings and threats from ideological opponents, within or outside the country. Guard members view themselves as keepers of Iran’s revolutionary flame.
The Guard is best known for the power it projects outside Iran in making foreign policy through training militias in foreign countries and undertaking operations such as fighting the Islamic State, the Sunni extremist militant group regarded as a terrorist organization by virtually all countries.
The Guard also differs from other branches of the armed forces in the strong influence it wields over who gains political power. The Guard controls directly and indirectly billions of dollars in contracts in construction, electricity and engineering, as well as in other strategic fields such as telecommunications and media. Many large companies are either tied to individuals in the Guard or run by former members.
The most elite members of the Guard are in the Al Quds Force, numbering a few thousand, whose work is focused mostly outside Iran. Its members are believed to carry out clandestine operations including assassinations, and are experts in asymmetric warfare. They have trained nonstate actors in foreign countries including Hamas in the Palestinian territories, Hezbollah in Lebanon, and Shiite militias in Syria and Iraq.
The Al Quds Force was designated as a supporter of foreign terrorist organizations, including the Taliban and others, more than 10 years ago by the Treasury Department.
They include an attempted assassination of the Saudi ambassador to Washington; the attempted assassination of an Israeli diplomat in New Delhi; and the capture and killing of five American military personnel by an Iraqi militia in a 2007 attack in Karbala, Iraq. The Al Quds Force also is thought to have initially supplied and then helped train Iraqis to manufacture roadside bombs that could destroy armored vehicles used by American soldiers in Iraq.
Increasingly they exercise power domestically through their businesses and propaganda wings, which not only own media companies but are also are active in Iranian universities. While involved in business of all kinds, Guard Corps members focus on those that have strategic implications, according to analysts at the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.
The top commander is Maj. Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari. He has held the position since 2007. Equally powerful, but perhaps with a higher profile, is the Quds Force leader, Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani.
General Suleimani is regarded as a hero in Iran, and perhaps a future leader of the country. He has been credited with having made some of the earliest liaisons between Iraqi organizations that opposed Saddam Hussein and Iran.
During the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war, he forged alliances with the Shiite Badr Organization of Iraq and with Kurdish leaders from different parties.
General Suleimani has been especially active in Iraq since 2014 when the Iraqi Army collapsed in the face of aggressive adherents of the Islamic State who seized Mosul and other cities. He helped to organize young Iraqi Shiite fighters who rallied to fight the Islamic State and ultimately, along with American air support and Special Operations forces, helped Iraq regain control over its territory.
Nonetheless, the United States has long considered General Suleimani a dangerous threat. And General Suleimani has not been shy about publicly rebuking the Trump administration.
Last July, when President Trump warned Iran not to threaten the United States, General Suleimani dismissed his warning in a speech as “cabaret-style rhetoric.”
ZAMBOANGA, Philippines — Philippine troops killed 12 Abu Sayyaf militants in clashes as they pressed an offensive in a southern province where the extremists have been blamed for the deadly bombing of a Roman Catholic cathedral, the military said Friday.
The 12 militants were killed in four separate clashes Thursday in mountainous Patikul town in Sulu province. The bodies of two of the slain militants were retrieved and several army scout rangers were wounded, the military's Western Mindanao Command said.
In the initial and largest clash, troops battled about 120 militants led by Hajan Sawadjaan and Radullan Sahiron near the village of Panglayahan. Four militants were killed and the rest withdrew and were chased by troops, military officials said.
Among those killed was Julie Ikit, an aide of Sahiron, who is on the U.S. list of wanted terrorists for his involvement in past ransom kidnappings and terrorist attacks, Sulu's military spokesman Lt. Col. Gerald Monfort said.
Troops later caught up with some of the fleeing militants in the jungle and engaged them in clashes that left eight more gunmen dead and several wounded, military officials said.
Sahiron managed to flee with Sawadjaan, the main suspect in the Jan. 27 bombing of a Roman Catholic cathedral during a Mass that killed 23 people in Sulu's capital town of Jolo. The cathedral attack by two suspected suicide bombers sparked the latest military offensive against the Abu Sayyaf.
Philippine officials suspect Sawadjaan, who has aligned his Abu Sayyaf faction with the Islamic State group, may be harboring at least one more potential suicide attacker, an Arab militant, in his jungle encampment in Patikul.
The Abu Sayyaf, which has been blacklisted by the U.S. and Philippine governments for deadly bombings, ransom kidnappings and beheadings, is estimated to have between 200 to 300 fighters. It has been weakened by battle losses and surrenders but remains a national security threat.
WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, resigned on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure in charge of the border security agency that had made her the target of the president’s criticism.
“I have determined that it is the right time for me to step aside,” Ms. Nielsen said in a resignation letter. “I hope that the next secretary will have the support of Congress and the courts in fixing the laws which have impeded our ability to fully secure America’s borders and which have contributed to discord in our nation’s discourse.”
Ms. Nielsen had requested the meeting to plan “a way forward” at the border, in part thinking she could have a reasoned conversation with Mr. Trump about the role, according to three people familiar with the meeting. She came prepared with a list of things that needed to change to improve the relationship with the president.
Mr. Trump in recent weeks had asked Ms. Nielsen to close the ports of entry along the border and to stop accepting asylum seekers, which Ms. Nielsen found ineffective and inappropriate. While the 30-minute meeting was cordial, Mr. Trump was determined to ask for her resignation. After the meeting, she submitted it.
The move comes just two days after Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly expressed anger at a rise in migrants at the southwestern border, withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement because he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction.
Mr. Trump has ratcheted up his anti-immigration message in recent months as he seeks to galvanize supporters before the 2020 election, shutting down the government and then declaring a national emergency to secure funding to build a border wall, cutting aid to Central American countries and repeatedly denouncing what he believes is a crisis of migrants trying to enter the country.
He took aim again Sunday night after announcing Ms. Nielsen’s departure, tweeting, “Our Country is FULL!”
Ms. Nielsen said she planned “to stay on as secretary through Wednesday” in order “to assist with an orderly transition.” The abruptness was unusual because the Department of Homeland Security currently does not have a deputy secretary, who would normally take the reins.
The president said in a tweet that Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, would take over as the acting replacement for Ms. Nielsen, who became the sixth secretary to lead the agency in late 2017. But by law, the under secretary for management, Claire Grady, who is currently serving as acting deputy secretary, is next in line to be acting secretary. The White House will have to fire her to make Mr. McAleenan acting secretary, people familiar with the transition said. Ms. Grady has told colleagues that she has no intention of resigning to make way for Mr. McAleenan.
[Read about Kevin McAleenan, the new acting homeland security secretary.]
Among the possible replacements for Ms. Nielsen in the long term is Ken Cuccinelli, the former Virginia attorney general who is a favorite among conservative activists and who fits the profile that Mr. Trump wants the next homeland secretary to have, people familiar with the discussions said.
Ms. Nielsen had been pressured by Mr. Trump to be more aggressive in stemming the influx of migrant crossings at the border, people familiar with their discussions in recent months said.
Her entire time in the job was spent batting back suspicion from the president, even as he told people he liked how she performed on television and enjoyed dealing with her personally. He initially was skeptical because of Ms. Nielsen’s previous service in the George W. Bush administration, and then because she was close to John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff.
The president called Ms. Nielsen at home early in the mornings to demand that she take action to stop migrants from entering the country, including doing things that were clearly illegal, such as blocking all migrants from seeking asylum. She repeatedly noted the limitations imposed on her department by federal laws, court settlements and international obligations.
Those responses only infuriated Mr. Trump further. The president’s fury erupted in the spring of 2018 as Ms. Nielsen hesitated for weeks about whether to sign a memo ordering the routine separation of migrant children from their families so that the parents could be detained.
In a cabinet meeting surrounded by her peers, Mr. Trump castigated her repeatedly, leading her to draft a resignation letter and to tell colleagues that there was no reason for her to lead the department any longer. By the end of the week, she had reconsidered and remained in her position, becoming an increasingly fierce supporter of his policies, including the family separations.
Mr. Trump and Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, have privately but regularly complained about Ms. Nielsen. Lou Dobbs, a Fox News host who is one of the president’s favorite sounding boards, has also encouraged Mr. Trump’s negative views of her handling of the migrant crisis.
Ms. Nielsen lost a powerful protector when Mr. Kelly, her mentor, left his job as White House chief of staff at the beginning of the year. Mr. Kelly was the Trump administration’s first homeland security secretary and lobbied for Ms. Nielsen to replace him.
Multiple White House officials said she had grown deeply paranoid in recent months, after numerous stories about her job being on the line. She also had supported the Immigration and Customs Enforcement nominee Mr. Trump withdrew, Ronald D. Vitiello, and her support for him was described as problematic for her with the president. Mr. Trump felt Mr. Vitiello did not favor closing the border, as the president threatened again to do in a tweet on Sunday night.
In early 2019, as the number of migrant families from Central American countries surged, the president’s fury at Ms. Nielsen did, too. He repeatedly demanded that she cut off foreign aid to Central American countries even though the funding was the responsibility of the State Department. She repeatedly deflected his demands.
One day after Ms. Nielsen traveled to Honduras to sign a regional compact with officials from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, Mr. Trump cut State Department funding for the countries. And in recent days, the president made public moves to undercut her authority, leaking news that he might nominate an “immigration czar” to assume oversight of the issue at the heart of Ms. Nielsen’s department.
Still, Ms. Nielsen embraced the president’s “crisis” language as apprehensions of migrants at the border shot up to thousands per day. On Friday, Mr. Trump traveled with Ms. Nielsen and Mr. McAleenan to Calexico, Calif., to highlight the issue.
While the number of border crossings is not as high as in the early 2000s, the demographic of migrants has shifted largely from individual Mexicans looking for jobs — who could easily be deported — to Central American families, overwhelming detention facilities and prompting mass releases of migrants into cities along the border.
Ms. Nielsen estimated last month that border officials had stopped as many as 100,000 migrants in March.
But despite the trip and several stories about how much better her relationship with Mr. Trump was, Ms. Nielsen never learned how to manage him, people familiar with their discussions said. He often felt lectured to by Ms. Nielsen, the people familiar with the discussions said.
And his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was not an admirer of Ms. Nielsen, several administration officials said. That came to a head recently as Mr. Kushner had inserted himself into immigration discussions.
While Mr. Trump often blamed Ms. Nielsen for the surge in migrant crossings, she will be remembered for leading the department during the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the southwestern border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families.
An intense backlash ensued, and the Department of Homeland Security was unprepared to deal with separating nearly 3,000 children from their parents.
“Hampered by misstep after misstep, Kirstjen Nielsen’s tenure at the Department of Homeland Security was a disaster from the start,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat and the chairman of the House’s committee on Homeland Security. “It is clearer now than ever that the Trump administration’s border security and immigration policies — that she enacted and helped craft — have been an abysmal failure and have helped create the humanitarian crisis at the border.”
Mr. Trump eventually moved to halt the family separations, though the government struggled in some cases to reunite those it had already separated.
By naming Mr. McAleenan acting secretary, Mr. Trump is installing another veteran of previous administrations, not a loyal foot soldier of Mr. Trump’s campaign.
Married to a Salvadoran immigrant, Mr. McAleenan is a lawyer who wrote an honors thesis at Amherst College on marriage equality and applied at the F.B.I. after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Described by colleagues as a savvy political operator, Mr. McAleenan worked cooperatively with Obama administration officials but later embraced Mr. Trump’s agenda, which included unshackling Border Patrol agents from restrictions that the previous administration had imposed.
Mr. McAleenan was also one of three Department of Homeland Security officials who had urged Ms. Nielsen to sign the memo authorizing the routine separation of migrant families at the border.
The department, which has a budget of more than $40 billion and more than 240,000 employees, is an amalgam of 22 government agencies that was created after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It is responsible for everything from protecting the nation from cyberattacks to responding to natural disasters.
At 46, Ms. Nielsen was the youngest person to lead the sprawling department, and an unlikely choice for the job.
In the months immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, she helped set up the Transportation Security Administration, now an agency within the department. She also worked as a special assistant to President George W. Bush on natural disaster response while serving on the White House Homeland Security Council.
When Mr. Trump moved Mr. Kelly to the White House in July 2017, Ms. Nielsen moved with him. As the principal deputy chief of staff, she enforced Mr. Kelly’s attempts to regulate access to Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, including the president’s schedule — irritating White House staff members, who complained she was uncompromising.
Mr. Kelly later backed Ms. Nielsen to succeed him at the Homeland Security Department, though she was criticized as too inexperienced for the job by Democrats and anti-immigration groups. Mr. Trump, however, said she was “ready on Day 1.”
“There will be no on-the-job training for Kirstjen,” Mr. Trump said in October 2017, announcing her nomination for the post.
But by the following spring, Ms. Nielsen was telling associates she was miserable in the job.
DUBAI — Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei rejected the United States' designation of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist organization, saying on Tuesday the Guards had confronted enemies at home and abroad, state TV reported.
U.S. President Donald Trump designated Iran's Guards a foreign terrorist organization on Monday -- an unprecedented step that will raise tensions in the Middle East.
"Our Sepah (the Guards) is in the frontline of confronting enemies of our (1979 Islamic) revolution and has always defended the country ... America has failed to block our advancements," Khamenei told a group of members of the Guards.
 (Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by Catherine Evans)
On Sept. 14, 2001, Congress wrote what would prove to be one of the largest blank checks in the country’s history. The Authorization for Use of Military Force against terrorists gave President George W. Bush authority to attack the Taliban, the Sunni fundamentalist force then dominating Afghanistan that refused to turn over the mastermind of the attacks perpetrated three days earlier, Osama bin Laden.
In the House of Representatives and the Senate combined, there was only one vote in opposition: Barbara Lee, a Democratic representative from California, who warned of another Vietnam. “We must be careful not to embark on an open-ended war with neither an exit strategy nor a focused target,” she said. “We cannot repeat past mistakes.”
Days later, Mr. Bush told a joint session of Congress just how broadly he planned to use his new war powers. “Our war on terror begins with Al Qaeda, but it does not end there,” Mr. Bush declared. “It will not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated.”
More than 17 years later, the United States military is engaged in counterterrorism missions in 80 nations on six continents. The price tag, which includes the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and increased spending on veterans’ care, will reach $5.9 trillion by the end of fiscal year 2019, according to the Costs of War project at Brown University. Since nearly all of that money has been borrowed, the total cost with interest will be substantially higher.
The war on terror has been called the “forever war,” the “long war,” a “crusade gone wrong.” It has claimed an estimated half a million lives around the globe. 
It is long past time for a reappraisal. 
More than 2.7 million Americans have fought in the war since 2001. Nearly 7,000 service members — and nearly 8,000 private contractors — have been killed. More than 53,700 people returned home bearing physical wounds, and numberless more carry psychological injuries. More than one million Americans who served in a theater of the war on terror receive some level of disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The blood was spilled and the money was spent based on the idea that war abroad could prevent bloodshed at home. As Mr. Bush explained in 2004: “We are fighting these terrorists with our military in Afghanistan and Iraq and beyond so we do not have to face them in the streets of our own cities.”
But hatred is borderless. It is true that since 9/11, no foreign terrorist group has conducted a deadly attack inside the United States. But there have been more than 200 deadly terrorist attacks during that period, most often at the hands of Americans radicalized by ideologies that such groups spread. Half of those attacks were motivated by radical Islam, while 86 came at the hands of far-right extremists.
When Donald Trump ran for the White House, one of his central promises was to rein in overseas military adventurism and focus the country’s limited resources on its core strategic priorities. While Mr. Trump’s foreign policy has been unwise if not self-defeating in many areas, he is right, as was Barack Obama, to want to scale back a global conflict that appears to have no outer bound.
That retrenchment needs to start where it all began: Afghanistan, which has remained for more than 17 years an open-ended war without an exit strategy or a focused target. 
At the peak of NATO involvement in 2011, around the time Bin Laden was killed in Pakistan, there were more than 130,000 soldiers from 50 nations fighting the Taliban and building up the Afghan national army, so it could stand on its own. 
There are now 22,000 soldiers from 39 countries in Afghanistan. Roughly 14,000 of them are American. Their mission now includes less combat and more training. But the result remains the same: The intelligence community’s 42-page “Worldwide Threat Assessment,” released last week, devotes only a single paragraph to the war in Afghanistan, labeling it a “stalemate.”
This page has been supportive of the war in Afghanistan since it began. We criticized NATO countries in Europe for not sending enough soldiers. And we were critical of the Bush administration for its lack of postwar planning and for diverting resources to the war in Iraq. 
Events have shown us to have been overly optimistic regarding the elected Afghan government, though we were rightly critical of its deep dysfunction. We have raised concerns about military tactics that cost civilians their lives and been skeptical of the Pentagon’s relentlessly rosy assessments of the progress made and the likelihood of success. 
We were supportive of Mr. Obama when he promised to end the war, we called for the faster withdrawal of forces and were disappointed when he fell victim to the sunk cost fallacy and sent in more troops late in his presidency. “It’s unlikely that keeping a few thousand American troops in Afghanistan for an extra year will do anything other than delay the start of that nation’s post-American era,” we wrote in 2015. 
Mr. Trump repeatedly called for ending the war in Afghanistan. In 2012, for instance, he said the conflict there was not in the national interest. Once in office, however, he was persuaded by his military advisers in 2017 to increase the American presence in pursuit of a new “plan for victory.” The plan, Mr. Trump said, would defeat the Taliban and other terrorists “handily.”
The rules on airstrikes were relaxed, and their number skyrocketed. The Pentagon sent in 4,000 more troops, to augment the 10,000 that Mr. Obama left behind.
The plan is failing. More bombs and boots haven’t brought victory any closer. Tens of thousands of Afghan civilians have been killed, maimed and traumatized. Millions of people are internally displaced or are refugees in Iran and Pakistan. 
Poppy cultivation is up four times over 2002. Despite years of economic and military aid, Afghanistan remains one of the least developed countries in the world. Afghan security forces, which were supposed to take over from NATO troops, have lost a staggering 45,000 soldiers in battle since 2014 and can’t fill their recruitment targets. 
Mr. Trump’s administration — which announced it would withdraw 7,000 troops but has yet to do so — is now negotiating with the Taliban, talks that are scheduled to continue this month. That’s a promising sign of a much-needed acknowledgment of reality.
It is time to face the cruel truth that at best, the war is deadlocked, and at worst, it is hopeless. The initial American objective — bringing Bin Laden to justice — has been achieved. And subsequent objectives, to build an Afghan government that can stand on its own, protect the population and fight off its enemies, may not be achievable, and certainly aren’t achievable without resources the United States is unwilling to invest. 
Walking away from a war is not a strategy. But an orderly withdrawal of NATO forces can be organized and executed before the year is out and more lives are lost to a lost cause. Two Americans have been killed in combat already in 2019. No American soldiers should be fighting and dying in Afghanistan in 2020.
Recent talks between the United States and the Taliban appear to have made encouraging progress. Those talks might be most accurately described as a negotiated capitulation by the international forces. The Afghan government hasn’t been party to the discussions because the Taliban doesn’t consider it a legitimate entity — just a puppet of the United States. In any case, once NATO forces leave, any treaty with the Taliban would be difficult to enforce. 
But as part of any withdrawal discussions, it should be made clear to the Taliban, the Afghan government and neighboring nations that if the country is allowed to again become a base for international terrorism, the United States will return to eradicate that threat. The Taliban have paid a very high price for harboring Bin Laden and — whatever their role in the future of the country — are unlikely to trigger a return of American forces by making a similar mistake in the future. 
The eventual withdrawal of American forces might be the only thing that all the parties to the conflict want to see happen. A majority of Americans want an end to the war. If Mr. Trump doesn’t end the war by the end of the year, Congress can repeal the 2001 authorization of military force. Congress needs, in any event, to reconsider its blank check.
Congress should also make it easier for Afghans who worked with NATO forces and want to immigrate to the United States to do so. Many have already been waiting for years.
No one can pretend that a withdrawal, even with an agreement, is likely to make life better for the Afghan people in the short term. That’s an agonizing consequence that anyone who supports withdrawal must acknowledge. Some experts predict an even fiercer civil war as the Kabul government and its army weaken and warlords gain new power. That could mean more deaths, new refugee flows and cuts in international aid that could cripple the Afghan military.
The plight of women and girls in Afghanistan has been perilous in wartime, and it could become far bleaker if the Taliban topple the current government and reimpose their barbaric pre-2001 regime. 
Yet it’s also possible that a decision to withdraw could prompt the Afghans, the Taliban and regional players like Pakistan, Russia, Iran, India and China to work together on a cooperative solution to stabilize Afghanistan and deny terrorists a regional base. Such a solution that preserves some of the civil society gains that the Afghans have made, while keeping the country free of international terrorists, is in the interests of all those parties.
The failure of American leaders — civilians and generals through three administrations, from the Pentagon to the State Department to Congress and the White House — to develop and pursue a strategy to end the war ought to be studied for generations. Likewise, all Americans — the news media included — need to be prepared to examine the national credulity or passivity that’s led to the longest conflict in modern American history.
The military has given honorable service. It is not the soldiers’ fault that their country sent them on a mission that was not achievable and failed to change course when that fact became apparent.
Any reckoning with the longest war in this country’s history must also grapple with one of its gravest miscalculations. We need to recognize that foreign war is not a vaccine against global terrorism. In fact, the number of Islamist-inspired terrorist groups has grown worldwide since 2001, often in response to American military intervention. 
Nearly two decades of terrorist attacks — here and abroad by attackers both foreign and domestic — have shown the obvious: that terrorism is a tactic, not an enemy force that can be defeated, and it knows no borders. It can be thwarted in certain instances, but it cannot be ended outright.
If efforts to deal with international terrorism are to be sustainable indefinitely, they need to rely principally on intelligence and interdiction, diplomacy and development — not war without aim or end.
The troops have fought bravely in Afghanistan. It’s time to bring them home. 
This article was produced in partnership with the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting. 
WASHINGTON — Pentagon prosecutors have made a renewed effort to charge three prisoners at the Guantánamo Bay wartime prison with conspiring in two deadly terrorist bombings in Indonesia in 2002 and 2003.
The prosecutors have tried unsuccessfully twice before to move the case ahead, but the office overseeing military commissions never signed off on the charges. If the charges are approved this time, it would be the first new case to head toward trial at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, since 2014.
The prosecutors are seeking to charge the prisoners — an Indonesian captive known as Hambali and two Malaysian men — with murder, terrorism and conspiracy in the 2002 nightclub bombings in Bali, which killed 202 people, including seven Americans, and the 2003 Marriott hotel bombing in Jakarta, which killed at least 11 people and wounded at least 80, including three Americans.
The three men have been held at Guantánamo since September 2006. They were captured in Thailand in August 2003 in a joint Thai-United States intelligence raid and spent about three years in the secret C.I.A. prison network.
If convicted, the men could receive a maximum sentence of life in prison because prosecutors chose not to seek the death penalty, said Brig. Gen. John Baker, the chief defense counsel for military commissions, who was notified of the charges on Friday. Each defendant has been assigned a lawyer who is a Marine Corps officer to defend him.
Maj. James Valentine, Mr. Hambali’s lawyer, said it would be “a really big stretch” to connect his client to the two attacks. In 2008, three Indonesian men were executed by firing squad for carrying out the Bali bombings, after a 2003 trial at which “the star witness Ali Imron never connected Hambali to these crimes,” Major Valentine said. Mr. Imron was the brother of two of the men who were executed, but was spared execution for his role in the bombing because of his testimony.
The charges dated Friday are the latest attempt in three years of efforts to bring Mr. Hambali, Guantánamo’s only Indonesian prisoner, to trial. Mr. Hambali’s most recent United States intelligence profile described him as “an operational mastermind” of the Southeast Asian extremist group Jemaah Islamiyah and its “main interface” with Al Qaeda “from 2000 until his capture in mid-2003.” It also described him as “a mentor” to Guantánamo’s other former C.I.A. black site prisoners.
In November 2016, the chief war crimes prosecutor, Brig. Gen. Mark Martins, traveled to Malaysia with two special envoys of the Obama administration in a failed effort to get the government there to agree to incarcerate one of Mr. Hambali’s apparent accomplices, who is known as Zubair, as a war criminal convicted by the United States.
The idea was to get Mr. Zubair, whose name is Mohd Farik Bin Amin, to testify against Mr. Hambali and another Malaysian, Mohammed Nazir Bin Lep, who is often called Lillie, in exchange for an arrangement to serve his military commissions sentence in a Malaysian prison.
The Malaysians balked and military prosecutors brought charges against Mr. Hambali alone in June 2017. But the office overseeing military commissions never cleared that case for trial. Six months later, prosecutors brought new charges against Mr. Hambali and the two Malaysians. That case was also never approved.
The spokesman for the Office of Military Commissions, Ron Flesvig, was unable to say Wednesday why the prosecutor issued new charges. The Pentagon lawyer with the title of convening authority for military commissions, Melinda L. Perritano, can decide which charges, if any, to approve for trial, Mr. Flesvig said.
The latest charge sheet differs from those brought by prosecutors in December 2017 in one critical respect: It includes the crime of conspiracy in addition to charges of murder in violation of the law of war, terrorism and other war crimes. In a long-running series of appeals, the Pentagon’s Court of Military Commission Review recently declined to consider whether conspiracy was a lawful war crimes charge, leaving intact the 2008 conspiracy conviction of Guantánamo’s lone war crimes convict, Ali Hamza al-Bahlul.
Mr. Bahlul, from Yemen, is serving a life sentence at Guantánamo for making a recruiting video for Al Qaeda and for other activities as Osama bin Laden’s media adviser before the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Mr. Bahlul’s lawyers are appealing that decision at the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, but prosecutors appear to have been emboldened enough by the Pentagon panel decision to add the charge of conspiracy to the Indonesian bombings case.
Eight of Guantánamo’s 40 prisoners are currently charged with crimes.
In 2012, one of them, Majid Khan, a former C.I.A. black site prisoner, pleaded guilty to delivering $50,000 from Al Qaeda to Jemaah Islamiyah, money that was ultimately used to fund the Marriott bombing in Jakarta, Indonesia. Mr. Khan is scheduled to be sentenced in July.
In a March court filing, his lawyers noted, “Mr. Khan’s ongoing cooperation in another matter, including his possible testimony at trial in that matter.” They did not specify which trial.
British police officers fired shots Saturday at a car outside the Ukrainian Embassy in London after it rammed other vehicles parked in front of the building.
No injuries were reported. Investigators said the motive was being investigated, but the episode was not being treated as terrorism.
The Ukraine Embassy said its ambassador’s official car, which was parked, was rammed twice before the police arrived at 9:50 a.m.
The police said the suspect was a man in his 40s who did not appear to be injured but was taken to a central London hospital for a precautionary check. The suspect was not identified or charged.
London’s Metropolitan Police said the officers used firearms and stun guns to detain the suspect after he had driven his vehicle toward a police car. Andy Walker, the chief superintendent of the Metropolitan Police, said the use of firearms would be investigated according to usual procedure.
The embassy is in Holland Park, in west London.
WASHINGTON — Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left open the possibility on Wednesday of entering a conflict with Iran without first seeking explicit congressional approval, telling senators “there is no doubt there is a connection” between Al Qaeda and Iran.
His comments came two days after the Trump administration designated Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist group, and were likely to fuel concerns of American military action against the country.
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, pushed Mr. Pompeo to commit that the Trump administration would not attack Iran under a war authorization allowing the use of military force against Al Qaeda and other extremist groups responsible for the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
Mr. Pompeo demurred, saying he would “prefer to just leave that to lawyers.”
Mr. Paul, a libertarian who promotes isolationist policies, said he was troubled by Mr. Pompeo’s response. “I can tell you explicitly, you have not been given power or authority by Congress to have war with Iran,” he said in the exchange at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Mr. Pompeo pivoted, noting ties between Iran and Al Qaeda: “There is no doubt there is a connection. Period. Full stop.”
After the Sept. 11 attacks, and as American forces prepared to bomb Afghanistan, more than a dozen senior Qaeda members fled to Iran. The circumstances of their living conditions were murky, but at least some were detained and later traded  in a prisoner swap with a Qaeda branch in Yemen. Hamza bin Laden, a son of Osama bin Laden, was believed to be among those living in Iran after the 2001 attacks; he is now considered a rising Qaeda leader.
Over several administrations, American officials have interpreted and stretched the 2001 authorization for use of force against the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks as granting legal permission to wage an armed conflict against not just Al Qaeda and the Taliban, but also other Sunni Islamist groups with links to Al Qaeda in the Middle East and North Africa.
It is not clear how the Trump administration could plausibly say Iran is an ally of Al Qaeda and participated in the Sept. 11 attacks. Among other things, Al Qaeda and its affiliates are Sunni extremists who consider adherents of the Shiite branch of Islam, like Iran’s government, to be heretics.
Mr. Pompeo has been a ringleader in the Trump administration’s pressure campaign against Iran. The terrorist designation that he announced on Monday was the first by the United States against an official entity in another country’s government.
It also appeared to pique Mr. Paul’s questioning about whether the United States was outlining a foundation for war. Mr. Pompeo called the designation against the Iranian military unit a “recognition of reality.”
Additionally, Mr. Pompeo was asked to affirm support for a two-state solution in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, as have previous Republican and Democratic administrations. He declined to answer when asked to describe what the United States would do if the Israeli government tried to annex the West Bank, widely seen as the foundation for a Palestinian state.
“The old set of ideas aren’t worth retreading,” he said in a reiteration of answers he gave at a Senate hearing on Tuesday. “They have simply not succeeded.”
Pressed by Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, on whether a two-state solution was an “old idea,” Mr. Pompeo replied: “I would argue that millions of man hours have been spent to try to build out a two-state solution. It hasn’t worked to date; it may work this afternoon.”
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, who appeared to win a fifth term Tuesday, said last weekend that he would apply sovereignty to some or all of the West Bank if re-elected. A framework for peace negotiations is likely to be unveiled soon by Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and Middle East adviser, although it is not expected to insist on a two-state solution or on ceding sovereignty to the Palestinians.
Mr. Pompeo said the peace framework would contain “things that neither of them like,” referring to Israeli and Palestinian leaders, “but things that the Gulf States think make sense.”
Mr. Kushner has sought approval for his plan from Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, but the kingdom has been critical of Mr. Trump’s decision in 2017 to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem.
Federal prosecutors said Monday they had filed a criminal charge against a 28-year-old man who they say planned to run down pedestrians on the National Harbor waterfront, a popular tourist site along the Potomac River near Washington.
The man, Rondell Henry of Germantown, Md., was inspired by the terrorist group ISIS when he stole a U-Haul van from a parking garage in Alexandria, Va., on March 26, according to the United States attorney’s office in Maryland. He has been charged with interstate transportation of a stolen vehicle.
Prosecutors say Mr. Henry, a computer engineer, drove the van early on March 27 to Dulles International Airport, where he got out and tried, unsuccessfully, for more than two hours to find a way through security. Mr. Henry then got back in the U-Haul and drove to the National Harbor in Maryland, arriving around 10 a.m., they said.
According to prosecutors, Mr. Henry walked around looking for an ideal spot to mimic a 2016 Bastille Day attack in Nice, France, in which a truck barreled through a crowd of spectators, killing more than 80 people.
Because the crowds at the National Harbor waterfront on March 27, a Wednesday, were thin, he delayed his plans, prosecutors said. He broke into a boat and hid there overnight, according to court documents.
The next morning, police officers discovered the stolen U-Haul and arrested Mr. Henry after he leapt over a security fence from the boat dock, according to prosecutors. The authorities first identified Mr. Henry through registration records left in his BMW, which was parked in Alexandria, near where the U-Haul was stolen, they said.
Mr. Henry did not have an escape plan, as he did not plan to survive the attack, prosecutors said.
“I was just going to keep driving and driving and driving,” he is quoted as saying in a motion for detention filed on Monday by federal prosecutors. “I wasn’t going to stop.”
A detention hearing is scheduled for Tuesday at 12:45 p.m. in Federal District Court in Greenbelt, Md.
Thomas Mooney, a lawyer who is representing Mr. Henry on state burglary and malicious destruction of property charges related to the National Harbor episode, said he would plead not guilty. A public defender representing Mr. Henry on the federal charge did not immediately return a call for comment on Monday afternoon.
Mr. Henry was reported missing after he left work around noon on March 26, and his family was concerned about his “physical and emotional welfare,” according to a public notice issued by the Montgomery County Police Department.
A spokeswoman for Hughes Network Systems, a broadband satellite company in Germantown, said Mr. Henry had previously been employed there as an independent contractor. The company declined to provide details about his position.
Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of George Washington University’s program on Extremism, said there is a long history of using vehicles as weapons of terror. In 2010, Al Qaeda promoted the use of cars to run over people in its online magazine, in an article titled “The Ultimate Mowing Machine.”
It was not until the rise of the Islamic State in 2014, however, that vehicular attacks became a common occurrence in Western countries. The most devastating was the 2016 attack on Bastille Day. It was followed by an attack on a Berlin Christmas market in 2016 as well as numerous smaller ISIS-inspired attacks in Europe and in North America.
An ISIS motto has become, “It doesn’t matter what you do, as long as you do something,” Mr. Hughes said. And vehicles, of course, are easier to obtain than other weapons.
In a 1988 hearing, Congress took the cosmetics industry to task for a rash of health and safety problems. Cosmetologists were reporting serious respiratory and nervous system damage. At least one woman had been permanently disfigured by flammable hair spray. And according to government data, nearly 1,000 toxic chemicals were lurking in countless other personal care products. Cosmetics companies were not doing enough to ensure that these products were safe, and the Food and Drug Administration did not have enough power to adequately police them.
When Edward Kavanaugh, president of the industry’s leading trade group, disputed those claims, Ron Wyden, then an Oregon congressman, stood firm. The industry’s safety apparatus was “a piecemeal patchwork system in dire need of repair,” Mr. Wyden said. Legislative reform was clearly needed.
That was 30 years ago. To date, no such reforms have been passed.
The American cosmetics industry is a $70 billion-a-year behemoth. The Food and Drug Administration’s Office of Cosmetics and Colors has an annual budget of just $8 million and 27 staff members. The laws governing the office’s authority run just two pages long and have not been updated since 1938, when they were first enacted. Such meager tools leave federal officials nearly powerless to regulate the makeup, lotions, toothpastes, deodorants and other elixirs that often are applied to the most intimate parts of the human body.
Industry leaders are right to note that, on the whole, cosmetic products have a good safety record. But in recent years, a fresh round of health and safety risks have left people wary.
Independent researchers have found asbestos in glittery products marketed to young girls; they’ve linked chemicals in nail polish to serious health problems in nail technicians; and they’ve traced reproductive health issues and mercury poisoning to hair and skin products used by many women of color. At the same time, some 200 people reached a settlement in a class-action lawsuit against Wen Hair Care, whose products they say burned their scalps and gave them alopecia; and nearly 12,000 people have sued Johnson & Johnson claiming that asbestos in the company’s baby powder gave them ovarian cancer. (Wen has said it believes that its products are safe; Johnson & Johnson has said its baby powder is safe and has never contained asbestos.)
Owing to a lack of resources or authority, the F.D.A.’s response to these issues has been incomplete. 
House and Senate members have introduced several bills in recent years that would give cosmetics regulations a much needed face-lift and could allay a rising tide of consumer anxiety. But so far none of these bills has seen a vote.
While lawmakers dither, the F.D.A.’s oversight of the cosmetics industry remains astoundingly limited. The agency cannot require companies to submit safety data before they market a product, to adhere to basic manufacturing standards once they do or even to register with the agency, things drug and medical device makers are mandated to do. Companies don’t have to report problems — or “adverse events” — that consumers relay to them. And if regulators do hear of incidents, they cannot demand to be allowed to inspect a company’s records; they can only check a facility for visible flaws, like mold.
The F.D.A. also can’t ensure the safety of imported cosmetics, which have doubled in volume in the past decade. The agency inspects less than 1 percent of the three million or so cosmetics shipments that come in every year. Among those that it does test, roughly 15 percent are found to be contaminated or to contain dangerous ingredients. 
The only panel tasked with determining the safety of individual cosmetic ingredients, the Cosmetic Ingredient Review, is funded and staffed by the Personal Care Products Council, a trade group that spends roughly $2 million a year on the panel — or about as much as it spends lobbying Congress. Industry leaders say that investment is proof of their commitment to safety. But, as the Environmental Working Group and other advocacy organizations have pointed out, it also creates a substantial conflict of interest.
That’s particularly alarming given that some of the panel’s conclusions have been at odds with those of impartial government entities like the National Toxicology Program. Of more than 5,000 chemicals that the panel has evaluated since its inception in 1976, only 11 have been found unsafe for use. The panel made those determinations not by testing chemicals or cosmetics directly, but by reviewing available data, which for many ingredients is paltry at best.
“We have learned a lot about these chemicals in recent decades,” says an F.D.A. regulator who is not authorized to speak to the press. “But we still don’t have a clear understanding of if or how well they might be absorbed through the skin or mucous membrane. That means women and children slather this stuff on every day without knowing what the real impact might be.” The Cosmetic Ingredient Review does not evaluate the risks of aggregate or cumulative exposure to an ingredient, from multiple products over many years, or the ways in which different ingredients might interact with one another. Its recommendations are not binding, and its member companies don’t have to say whether they follow them. 
Industry trade groups have spent years quashing efforts to close these gaps in regulatory oversight. As court records show and several news outlets have reported, the Personal Care Products Council (then called the Cosmetic, Toiletry, and Fragrance Association) waged a decades-long war with regulators and consumer safety advocates over asbestos-laced talcum powder. As far back as the 1960s, the organization insisted that such powder was safe, even as its own members’ scientists warned that it might not be.
The group resisted calls to add warning labels to talc-based products and pressured government agencies to refrain from listing the ingredient as a carcinogen. It also attacked safety advocates, calling them “chemical terrorists,” while giving pricey vacations to lawmakers who had the power to act on those advocates’ concerns.
More recently, the industry has been split. Larger companies, including Johnson & Johnson, the leading talcum powder manufacturer, now say that they welcome stronger oversight, for the regulatory certainty and consumer confidence that it would bring. But smaller companies still argue that more regulations would crush them.
The cosmetics industry and the F.D.A. have also been divided. In 2014, when negotiations between the two sides collapsed, each side blamed the other. Amid their bickering, the status quo has remained — few regulations, growing consumer anxiety and no one with any power to fix the situation.
Consumer fear of chemicals is so great these days that scientists have a name for it — chemophobia. It leads people to avoid everything from genetically modified foods to essential medicines, often in search of “natural” alternatives. Such fears are frequently overblown or misplaced, but they underscore a real problem: Most of the products on store shelves are probably safe, but many may not be; how is anyone supposed to know the difference?
When it comes to cosmetics, it is nearly impossible to determine which products to worry about. But as incidents stack up and consumer confidence wanes, individual states are stepping in with their own rules.
Such patchwork fixes can only lead to more confusion. Passage of a strong federal bill is the only way to reverse those trends. A good one would enable the F.D.A. to commission independent reviews of cosmetic ingredients and recall tainted products, and would require cosmetics companies to register with the agency and report adverse events. Such measures are not too much to ask of an industry whose products are used by virtually everyone every day.
Taxpayers also will have to shoulder some new costs — for such efforts to succeed, Congress will need to grant the F.D.A.’s Office of Cosmetics and Colors a sizable budget increase. 
Cosmetics companies want unfettered access to a multibillion-dollar market. Consumers want to know that the products they’re putting on their bodies are safe. Both sides can win — but only if Congress acts.
LONDON — In Parliament, lawmakers are mired in gridlock over Britain’s departure from the European Union, with no clear path forward. In Washington, President Trump stormed out of a meeting with congressional leaders who oppose his border wall, hardening a standoff that has shut down much of the government for longer than ever before.
Two governments paralyzed. Two populist projects stalled. Two venerable democracies in crisis.
Rarely have British and American politics seemed quite so synchronized as they do in the chilly dawn of 2019, three years after the victories of Brexit and Donald J. Trump upended the two nations’ political establishments. The countries seem subject to a single ideological weather system — one that pits pro-globalization elites against a left-behind hinterland.
The similarities abound: Brexiteers love to compare their cause to America’s war for independence. At a recent right-wing rally, one man marched with a scale model of the Liberty Bell. Mr. Trump has exuberantly backed Brexit, while his friend, the Brexit godfather Nigel Farage, appears on Fox News, invoking Europe’s migrant crisis as a reason to back Mr. Trump’s wall.
“It’s stunning how parallel this is,” said Stephen K. Bannon, who was an architect of Mr. Trump’s immigration policy as his former chief strategist, and is an ally of Mr. Farage. “If you’re going to challenge the system, the system is going to fight back.”
Mr. Bannon likened what he said was the growing possibility that Mr. Trump will declare a state of national emergency to build his wall over the objections of Congress to the once inconceivable but now real possibility that Britain will withdraw from the European Union in March without reaching a deal with Brussels — a so-called hard Brexit.
“Trump is getting ready for his own no-deal, hard-out,” Mr. Bannon said, even as Republicans and Mr. Trump’s aides and family are urging him not to take such a step.
The trans-Atlantic dysfunction has far-reaching ramifications, given the role the United States and Britain, pillars of the NATO alliance, play in counterterrorism operations, intelligence sharing, sanctions enforcement, and dealing with conflict zones like Syria.
With both countries also turning away from multilateral trade agreements, China has the opportunity to step in and play an even bigger role in the global economy. And Russia has seen an opening to expand its influence in Europe, where rising nationalism has threatened to fracture the European Union.
Mr. Trump and the Brexiteers have ridden a nationalist tide in their countries as well, using a potent anti-immigration message to appeal to mostly white voters who yearn for a more homogeneous society that no longer exists.
In Britain, immigration has provided an electric current to conservative politics since at least 1968, when the lawmaker Enoch Powell delivered a seminal speech calling for immigrants to be repatriated. Quoting a Greek prophecy of “the river Tiber foaming with much blood,” Mr. Powell’s speech is credited with propelling the Conservative Party to victory in the general election of 1970, though it also turned Mr. Powell into a political pariah.
Opposition to immigration spiked over the last two decades as Britain was hit with a series of terrorist attacks by Islamist militants and watched as migrants from Syria, Libya and other war-torn countries flooded across Europe.
In the United States, where the right was once preoccupied by social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage, immigration surged as an issue because of the changes wrought by globalization. Manufacturing jobs moved overseas, where labor was cheaper, while immigrants took both unskilled and high-tech jobs previously held by Americans.
By 2008, the financial crisis had wiped out millions of jobs, keeping people out of work for years and deepening the sense of grievance among many Trump supporters that immigrants were working for less and robbing them of their livelihoods.
Local politicians in California and elsewhere shot to stardom by introducing anti-immigrant ordinances. The Tea Party movement emerged, with core issues similar to those of Mr. Farage’s pro-Brexit U.K. Independence Party.
“The culture war has been replaced by a border war,” said Michael Lind, a visiting professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas. The residents of rural postindustrial areas came to view globalism sourly, he said, as an urgent problem.
“The people in those areas just said: ‘O.K., we’re not giving them any more time, the people in London and D.C., your time is up. We’re not going to wait a few more years for a recovery,’” said Mr. Lind, the author of “Land of Promise: An Economic History of the United States.” “They decided: ‘There’s a limited pie. This pie is not growing.’”
The urge to solve these problems by walling off the country from its neighbors is not a new one in either Britain or the United States. It partly reflects geography: Both are separated from much of the world by water, allowing them to experiment with isolationism.
“Brexit and the border wall are driven by the same impulse,” said Robert Kagan, a foreign policy theorist at the Brookings Institution. “Both reflect the island nation approach to the world, ‘Wouldn’t it be great if we could just cut ourselves off from everybody else?’”
“Britain, to some extent, is returning to one version of its roots, and America is returning to one version of its roots,” said Mr. Kagan, whose most recent book is “The Jungle Grows Back: America and Our Imperiled World.”
Britain has sometimes acted as a political early-warning system for its former colony. Margaret Thatcher took power less than two years before her conservative ally Ronald Reagan; the British voted to leave the European Union five months before Mr. Trump’s victory. The reverse was true in the 1990s, when Bill Clinton’s election anticipated that of Tony Blair.
If the two countries are both vulnerable to gridlock, that is partly for historic reasons. As two of the world’s oldest democracies, they spring from the same, centuries-old model: the electoral system known as first-past-the post or winner-take-all. Democracies that developed later, like Sweden and Finland, introduced proportional representation, which allows for smaller parties to enter Parliament.
Winner-take-all, by contrast, tends to increase polarization between two large parties, and exaggerate geographical divides, setting up stark conflict between sections of society.
And if Britain traditionally had a “strong, stable, efficient central state” that wielded control over policymaking, this has been changing, as Parliament reasserts its power to block the government’s agenda — much as a House of Representatives controlled by the Democrats is thwarting Mr. Trump.
“In my lifetime, Britain has never been in a more fragile state,” said Matthew Goodwin, an author of “National Populism: The Revolt Against Liberal Democracy.” “British politics is in an almost nonstop state of crisis. There are very high levels of polarization.”
“Both countries have seen the mainstream center really be squeezed,” Mr. Goodwin added. “That moderate, pluralistic marketplace of ideas — that’s really been challenged. Both countries have seen the rise of populist entrepreneurs.”
The most successful of these populist entrepreneurs is Mr. Trump, though he is adapting only fitfully to the realities of divided government in Washington. Mr. Bannon cast the standoff over the wall as a case of the establishment striking back against Mr. Trump’s insurgent victory in 2016.
“I call it the nullification project,” he said. “They’re not going to let you run on those populist themes and then implement them. If you’re going to be a disrupter, you’re going to have to take it from them.”
Mr. Kagan argued that the paralysis in Washington and London was not a case of populists versus elites, but merely democracies showing their periodic inability to settle deeply rooted divisions in society. And some argue that is not necessarily a bad thing.
“The process of consensus has broken down, but neither side is capable of imposing its will on the other side,” Mr. Lind said. “The purpose of having veto points is to build an eventual consensus. It’s not to paralyze things forever.”
In Washington, Mr. Trump may break the impasse by declaring his emergency — a risky assertion of executive power that would be challenged in the courts but would enable the government to reopen. Either way, the fate of the United States will not hang in the balance.
In London, where the political and economic consequences of a chaotic departure from Europe are far more profound, “it is much more difficult to compromise,” Mr. Lind said. “The side that loses is really, really going to lose.”
LOUMBILA, Burkina Faso — President Trump has ordered most American troops to withdraw from Syria. He wants to bring home thousands more from Afghanistan. Now hundreds of United States commandos and other forces are leaving West Africa — despite an onslaught of attacks from an increasingly deadly matrix of Islamist fighters.
The shift has unnerved African commanders in Burkina Faso and neighboring nations in the Sahel, a vast sub-Saharan scrubland increasingly racked by bombings, massacres, kidnappings and attacks on hotels frequented by Westerners. It is a region in which most Americans were unaware of United States military involvement until four Army soldiers were killed in a deadly 2017 ambush in Niger by Islamic State fighters.
What is emerging, critics said, is a glimpse of what happens when American troops, especially Special Operations forces, pull back before insurgents are effectively subdued, leaving local or allied forces to fend off the Islamic State, Al Qaeda or their offshoots.
“It’s a real problem,” Col. Maj. Moussa Salaou Barmou, commander of Niger’s Special Operations forces, said of the drawdown and the closing of seven of eight American elite counterterrorism units operating in Africa.
[For more coverage of the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]
Under the Trump administration’s military strategy, the Pentagon has pivoted from focusing on counterterrorism operations to potential threats from China and Russia. In December, President Trump ordered the withdrawal of all 2,000 American troops from Syria, although he since has softened it to allow at least 400 remain. A new Pentagon plan also would pull all 14,000 American troops from Afghanistan over the next five years — and as many as 7,000 in coming months — as part of continuing peace talks with the Taliban.
The American military is scaling back its commandos in Africa by about 25 percent, mainly in the continent’s west. At the same time, insurgents are attacking northern Burkina Faso and pushing south along the border with Niger toward areas previously untouched by extremist violence, including the Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Ghana, where the Pentagon has a logistics hub.
In one sign of the growing fear, a school in the Burkina Faso village of Bargo recently built a concrete wall around its buildings for greater protection. Just last month, two boys were kidnapped by extremists while they prayed at the nearby mosque, said Bonane Honore, the school’s headmaster.
“We are very scared,” said Christine Kabore Ouedraogo, a political leader in the village, a short drive from the training camp in Loumbila.
Colonel Major Barmou trained at Fort Benning, Ga., and the National Defense University in Washington. His comments — which were echoed by other African officers concerned about Washington’s commitment to fighting violent extremism — came during a counterterrorism exercise in Burkina Faso last week that drew 2,000 military personnel from more than 30 African and Western countries.
“The threat is gaining ground,” Foreign Minister Alpha Barry of Burkina Faso told a security conference in Munich in February. “It’s no longer just the Sahel, it’s coastal West Africa and the risk of spreading regionally.”
France, the former colonial power in West Africa, maintains 4,500 troops in the region to help battle insurgents in Niger, Chad and Mali, where it routed Al Qaeda’s affiliate from the north in 2013. French officials said the Pentagon had assured them it would keep providing intelligence, logistics and aerial refueling in what Prime Minister Édouard Philippe called “a hard fight,” while visiting troops in Mali last week.
The American military has a relatively light footprint across Africa, relying on European and African partners to carry out most counterterrorism missions from the Sahel to Somalia, with the Pentagon providing air power when needed. The United States has already conducted 24 airstrikes this year against Shabab targets in Somalia, compared with 47 all of 2018.
About 6,000 United States troops and 1,000 Defense Department civilians or contractors work throughout Africa, mainly training and conducting exercises with local forces.
The military’s Africa Command plans to cut 10 percent of those personnel by January 2022, including about 300 Special Operations forces from the roughly 1,200 commandos who were deployed across the continent last year.
American Green Berets from the Third Special Forces Group at Fort Bragg, N.C., advise their African partners on planning and carrying out operations, but rarely join them on missions, said Col. Nathan Prussian, the group commander.
American commanders said the changes reflected the progress made by the African troops and denied that the United States was backing away from its commitment to the region.
“The notion that we’re leaving the Sahel is simply not true,” Maj. Gen. J. Marcus Hicks, the head of American Special Operations forces in Africa, said in an interview. “This is just a natural transition.”
The drawdown, however, comes amid a torrent of terrorist attacks. In Burkina Faso alone, Islamic State and Al Qaeda affiliates and splinter groups conducted 137 attacks last year, up from 12 in 2016, according to the Africa Center for Strategic Studies.
Armed groups have attacked government buildings and schools, threatened teachers, conducted brutal assaults on cafes and other gathering places, and executed those suspected of collaborating with authorities. Last March, fighters attacked the French Embassy and the national army headquarters in Ouagadougou, the capital, killing eight security guards.
Military analysts and human rights groups cited three main reasons for the spiraling violence in Burkina Faso and its neighbors: French-led counterterrorism operations in Mali have pushed the problem south, into Burkina Faso. Armed Islamic militants have effectively exploited grievances among local populations. Abuses by security forces have fueled jihadist recruiting.
“These are a series of small rural insurgencies that are spreading,” said Jean-Hervé Jezequel, director of the International Crisis Group’s Sahel project in Dakar, Senegal.
The violence has upended Burkina Faso, a poor, landlocked country of about 20 million people that is roughly the size of Colorado and was once a French colony known as Upper Volta. A popular uprising ousted its longtime strongman, President Blaise Compaoré, in 2014.
But weeks after a democratically elected government took office, Qaeda militants in January 2016 carried out the most devastating terrorist attack in Burkina Faso’s history, killing 30 people at a luxury hotel and restaurant frequented by Westerners in Ouagadougou. In August 2017, Islamist extremists struck again, as gunmen stormed a popular cafe, leaving 18 dead.
Militants have largely outgunned the government of the current president, Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, who recently named a new prime minister and chief of armed forces to put Burkina Faso more on a war footing.
The United States is scheduled to provide about $100 million in support — including vehicles, body armor, radios and night-vision goggles — to the 12,000-member Burkinabe military and paramilitary forces over the next two years. An embassy spokesman said that was 10 times what the Pentagon provided the previous Burkinabe government.
The Trump administration is also providing about $242 million in military aid to the so-called G5 Sahel countries — Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Chad and Mauritania. But the G5 force, ultimately set to grow to 5,000 troops, has been slow to halt the militants’ advance.
African commanders said they welcome Western assistance, but noted the equipment that is provided is not always effective. Four-wheel drive Toyota Land Cruisers given by the United States, for example, lack armor to protect against increasingly powerful improvised roadside bombs.
“The terrorists have I.E.D.s, so we need hardened vehicles,” said Capt. Amadou Koundy, a Nigerien special forces officer who trained in Senegal and at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, Fla.
Military officials and independent analysts stressed that American and other Western military aid may at best buy time for African allies to address poverty, lack of education, government corruption and other grievances that extremist groups seek to exploit.
“There are no fully military solutions here, just holding actions,” said Alice Hunt Friend, a former top Pentagon official for Africa and a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
For now, though, African troops and their Western allies are racing to establish security.
At an Army training range in Loumbila, 15 miles northeast of Ouagadougou, Malian and Burkinabe commandos practiced marksmanship with AK-47 rifles and Beretta pistols under the watchful eye of Czech and Polish trainers barking out instructions in French.
With temperatures nearing 100 degrees under a blazing sun, the African troops also rehearsed how to thwart militant ambushes and roadside bombs, and clear militant-infested buildings.
The troops also honed their skills in the propaganda wars of winning hearts and minds. During the exercise, a four-man American civil-affairs team accompanied Burkinabe Army officers who rumbled over dusty, rutted dirt roads to visit the village of Bargo, bringing school supplies, soccer balls and good will from a government that still struggles to connect with its citizenry.
The village of 10,000 people lacks electricity and a working hospital, but Christians and Muslims live side by side in harmony. The village chief is Catholic. His younger brother is the village imam. “We are all one people,” said Mouni Ouedraobo, the imam.
Yet there are troubling signs, like the kidnapping of the two boys from the mosque, that peace may be imperiled as American troops draw down.
“The U.S. refocus, which has taken resources away from Africa, is shortsighted and in contrast to the long game being used by abusive Islamist groups,” said Corinne Dufka, associate director for West Africa at Human Rights Watch in Washington, who spent two weeks in Burkina Faso in January.
“Provided the U.S. is working to improve rights, this is not the time to scale back.”
RABAT, Morocco — A Swiss man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison by a Moroccan terrorism court for links to Islamic extremists who allegedly killed two Nordic tourists last year.
The man, 33, was convicted of charges including "deliberately helping perpetrators of terrorist acts" and training terrorists, according to state news agency MAP. The verdict was Thursday but reported Friday.
The online advertising technician, who was arrested in December, has a Moroccan wife, according to a lawyer representing another Swiss suspect in the case.
Moroccan prosecutors have filed terrorism charges against 25 individuals suspected of links to the killings.
The women tourists, one from Denmark and one from Norway, were found dead in their tent in the Atlas Mountains Dec. 17. Authorities blamed followers of the Islamic State group.
MILAN — Chaos in Libya following General Khalifa Haftar's offensive has increased the risk of terrorist presence on migrant boats headed for Italy, Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said, adding the country's ports would remain closed.
"Islamic terrorist infiltration is no longer a risk, it has become a certainty: it is therefore my duty to reiterate that no docking will be allowed on Italian shores" he said in a radio interview on Wednesday.
Salvini, leader of the anti-immigrant League party, refused to say if Italy's stance could change in case of a full-fledged war in Libya after the flare-up in the cycle of anarchy gripping the country since dictator Muammar Gaddafi was toppled in 2011.
 (Reporting by Alessia Pe, editing by Valentina Za)
CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The families drifted from the mosques to the hospital, their emotions battered, their eyes bloodshot.
More than a day had passed since the attacks on Friday that killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, and many still did not know the fate of loved ones they believed were at prayer when the gunman arrived and started firing.
Akhtar Khokhar, who arrived two months ago from India to visit her son, had come to the hospital for answers.
“This is my husband,” she said, holding up a photo before an imam who was at Christchurch Hospital to try to help family members. He shook his head with uncertainty.
Others faced similar frustrations, with no firm answers about who had died.
“This is the best they can do?” asked Zuhair Darwish, as his brother’s wife in Jordan kept calling, desperate, wanting to know whether to plan a funeral.
Hours before, the gunman who had inflicted all this pain was charged with one count of murder, with dozens more expected.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who flew to Christchurch to visit with families, vowed that “our gun laws will change — now is the time.” Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the racist manifesto purported to be from the gunman.
[Read live updates here from New York Times journalists in Christchurch.]
On Saturday evening, Mr. Darwish, like many others, still could not believe where the horror had landed him: in a hospital cafeteria, renamed a “relatives room,” that was crowded with grief and hot with anger.
Dozens of family members — teenagers in T-shirts, grandmothers in head scarves, bearded men in jeans — were there, squeezed together and pressing for information from overwhelmed officials.
“It’s illegal to hide the names from us!” Mr. Darwish shouted at a police official, who was fielding questions while standing on a chair at the back of the room, where few could hear him. “You have to provide them!”
This was not where they belonged, many of the survivors said.
Bloodshed, terrorism and fear were what some of them had left behind, fleeing countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan and Somalia. Others were born here, used to relative quiet and peace. But in the land of emerald green rugby pitches, hatred found them all anyway.
[Go here to read how the attack unfolded on Friday.]
They responded with the full range of human emotion. Walking between the mosques and the hospital revealed countless examples of tears and outrage. There was debilitating sadness. There was confusion, but also the kind of love you see in hugs that hold tight and bring tears without concern for who is looking.
“This is a test,” said Zia Aiyaz, 32, an engineer originally from Afghanistan who flew to Christchurch from Hamilton, New Zealand, to help the families of those who were killed or wounded. “God is testing us — testing the families and us, and we’re here to help.”
Islam first arrived in Christchurch in 1854, with a family from India, local history says. Its roots strengthened in the 1970s with the arrival of Afghan immigrants, and again in the ’90s with new arrivals from other countries.
The Muslim community is neither highly visible nor invisible here in Christchurch, a pleasant city of 350,000 near the South Island’s Pacific Coast. Mostly Sunni, they are part of a small but growing group of around 46,000 Muslims overall in a country of 4.6 million. In Christchurch, their ranks include students at local universities, taxi drivers, professionals, nurses — and imams like Lateef Alabi.
A leader at the Linwood Mosque, he is originally from Nigeria but is also close to finishing a Ph.D in Malaysia. He has been in New Zealand for three years.
On Saturday, he moved briskly between all the areas where families had gathered, having changed into a clean, gray dishdasha robe. His garment from the day before had been stained with blood.
He often found that he had little to offer those in need.
When Ms. Khokhar found him, and told him her husband had been at Al Noor Mosque, he shook his head and just said, “Oh no.” That was where 41 people had been killed.
Many of those who attended prayers on Friday were regulars, for whom Islamic practice was woven into engaged lives in the city.
Yasir Amin Nasr, 35, who moved from Lahore, Pakistan, five years ago, now works for the Christchurch City Council. He and his father, Muhammad Amin Nasr, had parked their car up the road from Al Noor Mosque on Friday and were walking toward the building when they first heard gunfire.
After another burst of gunshots, he pleaded with his father to run away, and quickly. But it was too late.
“Two, three seconds, he was just in front of us, pointing the gun at us,” Mr. Nasr said, trying to show a distance of some eight yards separating them from the gunman.
“I saw him. He looked at us,” Mr. Nasr said. “He was driving. He stopped the car when he spotted us and he got his gun.”
Mr. Nasr said the gunman aimed the weapon across the driver’s side of the car, through the passenger window toward him and his father and began firing.
His father was hit twice. On Saturday night, he was in critical condition in Christchurch Hospital.
His father, a regular traveler to New Zealand, had arrived three weeks ago for this latest visit and had planned to stay for longer than usual.
“He likes it here,” Mr. Nasr said. “He said he would stay for at least one year because of peace, because here he has nothing to worry about, he can just relax.”
More might have died at the Linwood Mosque but for the selfless actions of Abdul Aziz, 48, who was praying there with his four sons when he heard gunshots.
Rather than fleeing, he ran toward the sound and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and tossed it at the attacker. He then tried to draw the gunman’s attention to himself, and away from other worshipers, by weaving through cars in the parking lot.
Mr. Alabi told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher without Mr. Aziz’s actions.
Mr. Aziz, originally from Afghanistan, said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it. But when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.
Perhaps because of where the shooting took place — a country where there are fewer than a dozen murders in some years — many of the survivors found themselves reaching back in time, using words like peace and quiet, calm and safety.
Mr. Darwish, 40, said that was how he persuaded his brother, Kamel, to move to New Zealand from Jordan: “I told him it’s the safest country in the world and the best place to raise kids.”
“He was here for six months,” he added. “He was going to bring his wife in a month.”
Instead, Kamel was missing and presumed dead.
Inside the hospital’s relatives room, Mr. Darwish could not contain his frustration. Several relatives had to walk him outside to help him calm down when a local imam he didn’t know stood up and tried to explain that they were trying to wait until all the names had been confirmed and all the bodies identified before sharing information with the group.
“We want connectivity,” said the imam, Mustafa Farouk. “So everyone gets closure at the same time.”
Others in the crowd demanded an alternative, something quicker “so we can rest!” shouted one man in a far corner.
Mr. Farouk explained that some of the victims were unrecognizable because of their wounds. Another imam reminded them that “it’s not a car accident, it’s an international crime scene,” and that officials had to be careful not to get anything wrong.
Still, the crowd pleaded: Let people share photos. Let imams who know some of the dead identify them.
For a time, the pain brought division. Then the discord was broken when a man shouted “Allahu akbar!” — God is great — and called for patience.
A few minutes later, officials announced that they would not wait for all the bodies to be identified. They acceded to the community’s demands and let people send photos to the police and choose imams to identify those they could.
The survivors knew this victory would only bring more pain. But at least they were moving toward a resolution, together and alone.
Forty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described as “an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence.”
• Officials said that one man in his late 20s had been charged with murder, and that two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that they had stopped.
• A Muslim leader in New Zealand said the attack was especially shocking as it took place around Friday Prayer. The police urged people to stay away from the mosques until further notice.
• A video and manifesto that appeared to be by a gunman involved in the shooting were posted online on the day of the attack.
Shots were fired at Al Noor Mosque on Deans Avenue in the center of the city, and at Linwood Mosque, about three miles away, the police said.
The country’s police commissioner, Mike Bush, said in an evening news conference that 41 people had been killed at Al Noor Mosque and seven at Linwood Mosque, and that a further victim had died at Christchurch Hospital.
The police said that four people, including three men and one woman, had been taken into custody. Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia said that one of them was Australian.
Mr. Bush said that a man in his late 20s had been charged with murder and would appear in Christchurch court on Saturday morning. A number of firearms were recovered from the scenes of the shootings, he said.
Of the three others who were arrested, the police commissioner said that one might have had nothing to do with the attack and that the police were working to determine how the other two might have been involved.
Ms. Ardern said earlier that none of those detained were on security watch lists.
Two explosive devices were found on one vehicle, Mr. Bush said, adding that the police had defused one and were in the process of defusing the other.
Mr. Bush had earlier urged people not to go to mosques anywhere in New Zealand on Friday. He also urged mosques nationally to “close your doors until you hear from us again.”
— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAY and MEGAN SPECIA
A 17-minute video posted to social media appears to show part of the attack.
The clip, which may have been taken from a helmet camera worn by a gunman, begins behind the wheel of a car. A man, whose face can occasionally be seen in the rearview mirror, drives through the streets of Christchurch before pulling up in front of Al Noor Mosque, beside the sprawling Hagley Park.
He approaches the mosque on foot, his weapon visible, and begins shooting at people at the entrance. What follows is a harrowing nearly two minutes of his firing on the worshipers.
At one point, the gunman exits the mosque and fires in both directions down the sidewalk before returning to his car for another gun — which, like the others, was inscribed with numbers, symbols or messages. When he re-enters the mosque, he shoots several bodies at close range.
After another few minutes, he returns to his vehicle and drives away.
“There wasn’t even time to aim, there was so many targets,” he says at one point, as the sirens of an emergency response vehicle blare in the background.
— MEGAN SPECIA and JASON BAILEY
Before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white-nationalist manifesto on Twitter and the online forum 8chan. The 8chan post included a link to what appeared to be the gunman’s Facebook page, where he said he would also broadcast live video of the attack.
The Twitter posts showed weapons covered in the names of past military generals and men who have recently carried out mass shootings.
In his manifesto, he identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia and listed his white nationalist heroes.
Writing that he had purposely used guns to stir discord in the United States over the Second Amendment’s provision on the right to bear arms, he also declared himself a fascist. “For once, the person that will be called a fascist, is an actual fascist,” he wrote.
— DANIEL VICTOR and TIFFANY MAY
Felix Kjellberg, a polarizing YouTube celebrity known as PewDiePie, distanced himself from the attacks after the man who filmed himself shooting victims at a mosque encouraged viewers to “subscribe to PewDiePie” in a video livestream.
“I feel absolutely sickened having my name uttered by this person,” Mr. Kjellberg, a Swede, said on Twitter.
Mr. Kjellberg has courted controversy by performing anti-Semitic gestures, which he calls satirical, in his videos. He has a following of 89 million subscribers.
— TIFFANY MAY
Over the last 18 months, tech companies have promised stronger safeguards to ensure that violent content is not distributed through their sites. But those new safeguards were not enough to stop the posting of a video and manifesto believed related to Friday’s shooting.
A 17-minute video that included graphic footage apparently of the shooting could be found on Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram more than an hour after being posted. While Facebook and Twitter took down pages thought to be linked to the gunman, the posted content was spread rapidly through other accounts.
In order to evade detection, people appeared to be cropping the video or posting the text of the manifesto as an image — both of which are techniques used to evade automated systems that find and delete content.
Social media companies have heavily invested in those systems, with Facebook reporting last year that more than 99 percent of terrorism content by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda was found and removed through artificial intelligence.
A Facebook spokeswoman offered condolences to the victims and said the company was “removing any praise or support for the crime and the shooter or shooters as soon as we’re aware.”
— SHEERA FRENKEL and DANIEL VICTOR
Moustafa Farouk, a spokesman for the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, said it was especially shocking that the attack occurred around Friday Prayer.
Mr. Farouk, who said in a telephone interview that he was on his way to Christchurch to meet with Muslims there, said he had never imagined that an attack of this kind could happen in New Zealand.
“It’s one of the most peaceful countries in the world,” he added, although he said that “this kind of random act of violence will affect that image.”
— MEGAN SPECIA
Ms. Ardern called Friday “one of New Zealand’s darkest days.”
“What has happened here is an extraordinary and unprecedented act of violence,” the prime minister said at a news conference in New Plymouth, describing the shooting as “an act that has absolutely no place in New Zealand.”
“Many of those affected may be migrants to New Zealand — they may even be refugees here,” Ms. Ardern said of the victims. “They are one of us. The person who has perpetrated these acts is not.”
Ibrar Sheikh, the secretary of the Al Mustafa Jamia Masjid in south Auckland, described the two mosques targeted in Christchurch as “a United Nations” of ethnicities.
— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM McLAY
Aman Singh, who works at a convenience store close to the Deans Avenue mosque, said he had heard the gunshots on Friday afternoon, and that shortly afterward people had streamed past the shop, bloody and crying.
Mr. Singh, 26, said he knew several people who worshiped at the mosque.
“My really good friend goes there,” he said, adding that he had not been able to confirm the friend’s whereabouts on Friday afternoon.
Mr. Singh, who moved to New Zealand from India four and a half years ago, was still hiding in the store with his wife, as the police had yet to arrive at their location.
He said they would be unlikely to be able to return home anyway, as their street was cordoned off because it was close to the Linwood Mosque that was also attacked.
— CHARLOTTE GRAHAM-McLAY
Murders are rare in New Zealand, and gun homicides even rarer. There were 35 murders countrywide in 2017. And since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits each year except 2009, when there were 11.
But there are plenty of guns.
There were 1.2 million registered firearms in the country of 4.6 million people in 2017, according to the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit.
A mass shooting in the New Zealand in 1990 — when a man killed 13 people, including two 6-year-olds, after a dispute with his neighbor in the seaside town of Aramoana — led directly to tightened gun laws, including restrictions on “military style semiautomatic weapons.”
Gun owners must be licensed, a process that includes a review of criminal activity and mental health, attendance at a safety program, an explanation of how the gun would be used, a residence visit to ensure secure storage, and testimonials from relatives and friends.
— DANIEL VICTOR
SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Sunday that a break-in and robbery at its embassy in Spain last month was “a grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law,” calling on Madrid to conduct a thorough and fair investigation of the mysterious incident.
North Korea was also closely monitoring reports that the F.B.I. and an anti-North Korea group had been involved, a spokesman for its Foreign Ministry told the official Korean Central News Agency.
The unidentified spokesman’s comments were the first official North Korean reaction to the Feb. 22 raid.
“This kind of act should never be tolerated over the globe,” he said, adding that during the assault on the embassy, an armed group had “bound, beaten and tortured” staff members and stolen communications equipment.
North Korea expects the Spanish authorities to “bring the terrorists and their wire pullers to justice in conformity with the relevant international law,” he said.
The raid at the North Korean Embassy took place five days before the start of President Trump’s summit meeting in Vietnam with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
Ten suspects attacked embassy employees with knives, machetes, metal bars and fake pellet guns, a Spanish judge investigating the case said last week. After holding the employees hostage for several hours, the assailants fled with a cellphone, two pen drives, and two computers and two hard drives that probably contained security footage, the judge reported.
The judge identified the leader of the gang as Adrian Hong Chang, who he said was a Mexican man who lives in the United States. Mr. Hong Chang escaped to the United States and got in touch with the F.B.I., offering to share “audiovisual material” obtained during the embassy attack, the judge said.
An international arrest warrant has also been issued for an American identified as Sam Ruy.
A mysterious organization that describes itself as a dissident group dedicated to toppling Mr. Kim’s regime in Pyongyang has since claimed responsibility. The group, known as Cheollima Civil Defense, or Free Joseon, said on its website that its action at the embassy had not been “an attack,” that no one had been beaten and that no weapons had been used.
The group “shared certain information of enormous potential value with the F.B.I. in the United States, under mutually agreed terms of confidentiality,” it said. “This information was shared voluntarily and on their request, not our own. Those terms appear to have been broken.”
On Thursday, the group said it had been forced to temporarily suspend its operations because of speculative media reports.
The F.B.I. has declined to comment on the case. The State Department in Washington said the United States government had nothing to do with the raid and reiterated that diplomatic missions “ought to be respected and are protected by treaty.”
Lee Wolosky, a lawyer representing the group, said its representatives had been invited into the embassy. “There was no ‘terrorist attack’ — a claim which is itself the propaganda of a designated state sponsor of terrorism,” he said. “In due course, Free Joseon expects to be able to provide to relevant authorities additional evidence concerning what happened in Madrid.”
NEW DELHI — An Indian court on Wednesday acquitted four men accused of involvement in a 2007 train bombing that killed 68 people, most of them Pakistanis, saying there was insufficient evidence to prove a conspiracy.
The defendants included an Indian monk charged but acquitted in earlier attacks targeting Muslim gathering spots.
Observers in India immediately framed Wednesday’s verdict in stark terms: as a win for Hindu “saffron” extremists, or a decision that disproved their existence.
“Another clean chit to right-wing terror in India,” Rana Ayyub, a prominent Indian journalist, wrote on Twitter. “Big Blow To ‘Saffron Terror’ Theory,” read the headline for a story by Swarajya, a right-leaning news outlet.
The question of whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party has shielded Hindu extremists is a hot-button issue ahead of national elections this spring.
Some 900 million people are eligible to vote in April and May to fill parliamentary seats and effectively choose the next prime minister. Mr. Modi is campaigning for a second-five year term leading the world’s largest democracy.
Following the recent military confrontation between India and Pakistan, set off by a suicide bombing in Kashmir that killed more than 40 Indian troops, Mr. Modi has tapped into an intense nationalist current. But his record has been blemished by a faltering economy and a rise in religious-based hate crimes against minority groups.
Data from FactChecker, an Indian organization that tracks reports of violence, found that as many as 90 percent of such crimes in the past decade occurred after Mr. Modi took office in 2014. Most of the cases targeted Muslims; in some, mobs mutilated and burned victims’ bodies.
The February 2007 blast occurred on the Samjhauta Express, which travels between India and Pakistan. Explosives ripped apart coaches as the train neared its final stop in India before crossing the border.
The investigation lasted for years, initially focusing on Lashkar-e-Taiba, an Islamist militant group, and then shifting to a Hindu far-right group called Abhinav Bharat.
Investigators charged eight men with murder and criminal conspiracy under an explosives law. Among them was Swami Aseemanand, who worked for years with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, or the R.S.S., a far-right Hindu nationalist organization.
Mr. Aseemanand had previously been acquitted of two other deadly bombings in the 2000s — at a Sufi shrine in northern India and at a mosque in the city of Hyderabad.
On Wednesday, Jagdeep Singh, the judge for a special court in the state of Haryana, where the 2007 blast occurred, dismissed a Pakistani woman’s plea to consider eyewitnesses’ accounts from her country, according to news reports.
Then the court ruled that there was not enough evidence to convict four of the men: Mr. Aseemanand, Lokesh Sharma, Kamal Chauhan and Rajinder Chaudhary. Three others were not tried. A fourth was shot dead near his home in 2007.
R.K. Handa, a lawyer for India’s National Investigation Agency, which handles terrorism cases, told reporters that the court had concluded that investigators were “unable to prove” charges of a broader conspiracy.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
President Trump discusses pulling out of NATO, Britain’s Parliament is set to hold a momentous Brexit vote, and American airports are feeling the government shutdown. Here’s the latest: 
On multiple occasions last year, the president said that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 69-year-old North Atlantic Treaty Organization, senior administration officials told our reporters, revealing highly sensitive efforts to preserve the alliance. 
Such desires underline concerns about Mr. Trump’s secretive relationship with Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. Withdrawing the U.S. from NATO would be a grand victory for Mr. Putin and effectively destroy a 29-country alliance that undergirds the E.U.’s security and the world order, and senior administration officials were at first unsure if Mr. Trump was serious. He was, and so his national security team scrambled to run interference and keep the U.S. in. 
Mr. Trump’s belief that NATO is a money-loser appears to be fundamental to his worldview, along with an often-stated desire to seize Iraq’s oil, officials said. 
Reaction: “Even discussing the idea of leaving NATO — let alone actually doing so — would be the gift of the century for Putin,” said retired Adm. James G. Stavridis, the former supreme allied commander of NATO. He added that withdrawal would be a “geopolitical mistake of epic proportion.” 
The British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan — and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to manage its magnitude.
In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europe’s most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic “no deal” withdrawal from the E.U. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.
The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat — a margin of more than 100 votes would constitute a big loss. Her leadership hangs in the balance.
Another angle: Despite predictions that a no-deal Brexit could cause everything from insulin shortages to an 8 percent drop in gross domestic product, many Brexit supporters brush off the fears, even as some of the strongest pro-Brexit voices join in the warnings. 
More: The vote is expected to take place on Tuesday evening in London. We’ll have live updates on nytimes.com. 
Asked to work without pay during a partial government shutdown, one of every 13 airport screeners in the U.S. is now failing to show up, and the country’s airports are beginning to groan. International hubs in Houston and Atlanta closed a number of checkpoints. Canadian air traffic controllers sent their American counterparts hundreds of pizzas as consolation for working without pay.
What’s next? Airport security could eventually collapse as workers desert their jobs. But President Trump rejected a proposal to temporarily reopen the government while continuing talks with Democratic lawmakers on funding a wall on the southern border. 
Response: Senate Republicans are largely standing behind the president, and so are Republican voters, including many federal workers affected by the shutdown. 
Though Russia decriminalized homosexuality during the breakup of the Soviet Union, the police in the region of Chechnya have periodically detained gay people in extrajudicial arrests, and a new report paints a harrowing picture of a recent crackdown that applied tactics used against Islamist terrorists to round up gay people.
Details: Since late last year in Chechnya, two gay men have been killed and about 40 men and women who are either gay or suspected of being gay have been detained in a makeshift prison, according to a rights group, the Russian LGBT Network. 
Background: Moscow gives Chechnya’s regional leader, Ramzan Kadyrov, an Islamist, significant leeway in exchange for loyalty, but international pressure had seemed to tamp down an anti-gay campaign his government began in 2017. Rights activists say they are alarmed by the report of a new crackdown.
In Poland: Mayor Pawel Adamowicz of Gdansk, a leading liberal critic of the populist, right-wing national government and a supporter of gay rights, died from his injuries after he was stabbed at a charity event by a man described by the authorities as mentally disturbed. 
China: A court sentenced a Canadian to death for drug smuggling at a one-day retrial ordered weeks after a Chinese executive’s arrest in Canada, escalating tensions between the two countries.
Saudi Arabia: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that he pressed Saudi Arabia’s crown prince on a number of thorny issues that have weakened the American-Saudi alliance, including the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi, while affirming a shared goal of opposing Iran. A fractious Middle East means Mr. Pompeo faces major obstacles in trying to form a wider coalition against Iran.
Golden jackals: Once barely known in Europe, the species now vastly outnumbers wolves on the Continent, and it is spreading rapidly, capturing scientific interest and forcing Europe to grapple with what the expansion means ecologically. 
Russia investigation: William Barr, President Trump’s nominee for attorney general, told Congress he would allow the special counsel, Robert Mueller, to finish his investigation.
Sergei Polunin: Considered by many one of the top male dancers of his generation, he lost an invitation to dance at the Paris Opera, over social media posts that were anti-gay and sexist. 
U.S. Congress: Representative Steve King of Iowa was denounced by House Republican leaders and removed from two congressional committees after he made comments to The Times questioning why white supremacy is considered offensive.
Serena Williams: The tennis star is back in Melbourne for the Australian Open, which she won in 2017 while pregnant. This time, though, the conversation around her threatens to overshadow the tournament itself. Follow along here for the latest from the Open. 
But why? An image of an egg has become the most liked Instagram post ever. 
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in your inbox.)
Tidying up: Here’s how you can make some money rather than throwing everything away.
Get more sleep on the road: This year, hotels, cruise lines, airports and airlines will furnish amenities to add more shut-eye.
Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.
On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.
But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.
In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.
A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737’s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.
And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.
Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.
Using only the engines to control the plane’s direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.
Where’s their Tom Hanks movie?
Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia — Russian President Vladimir Putin says special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation report validated Moscow's repeated denials of collusion with U.S. between President Donald Trump's campaign.
Speaking at an Arctic forum in St. Petersburg on Tuesday, Putin said claims of collusion by Democrats reflect their failure to accept the outcome of the 2016 presidential election.
Putin says he thinks their attacks on Trump are a disrespect to voters and reflect a crisis of the U.S. political system.
The Russian leader said he hopes partisan fighting in Washington eases so the U.S. and Russia can focus on issues of mutual interest, such as nuclear arms control, fighting terrorism and climate change.
Asked if Russia would support Trump's re-election in 2020, Putin said only that Moscow would "respect the choice of the American people."
The United States and the Taliban made progress in peace talks in late January after coming to a basic understanding about withdrawing American troops in return for Taliban commitments to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for transnational terrorists. An agreement between the United States and the Taliban has been long overdue — as part of a broader settlement also involving the Taliban's Afghan opponents — and is the way out of a war without victory. 
The fear of Afghanistan-based terrorists attacking the United States has been the key reason for keeping American troops in the country and keeping the Taliban out of power, but it is rooted more in perception than in reality.
The transnational terrorist threat from Afghanistan has been exaggerated. For years, I have puzzled over claims from American and Afghan officials that 20 terrorist groups operate in Afghanistan. Ashraf Ghani, the president of Afghanistan, portrayed the country as a “front line” in the global fight against terrorism. These statements make the Afghan conflict appear terribly chaotic. 
The reality is that the Afghan war is a two-sided struggle, something increasingly rare in the fragmented landscape of modern warfare. The conflict in Afghanistan is simpler than the multifactional wars in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen. Almost every battle in Afghanistan involves the Taliban fighting the government forces, which makes insurgency almost synonymous with the Taliban.
Foreign jihadist groups in Afghanistan grew, mutated and faded over the past two decades. Al Qaeda dwindled from a potent force in southern and eastern Afghanistan to a peripheral actor. This happened partly because of the relentless American campaign against them and partly because Al Qaeda’s attention moved to the Middle East. 
The decline of other militant groups in Afghanistan has also resulted from the Taliban’s calculated effort to establish a near-monopoly over insurgent operations in the country. This could be observed when the Taliban declared a three-day cease-fire in June. No militants broke the cease-fire except for the Islamic State in Khorasan Province, a local franchise of the Islamic State. I.S.K.P. was born in 2015 partly in reaction to the Taliban’s purge of foreign jihadist groups and its own hard-line commanders. 
When the I.S.K.P. emerged in eastern Afghanistan, the Taliban was the first to move against it. The Taliban was one of the three forces alongside the United States military and Afghan government forces whose sustained offensive against I.S.K.P. confined it to a handful of districts in the remote eastern mountains, although it has shown resilience.
Hunted and isolated, I.S.K.P. is the biggest nonstate group after the Taliban; the other “20 terrorist groups” have little strength, reach or operational capability. More than half are local Pakistani groups, some are long defunct, and others regularly change their ideology and branding. Most of them target Shiite or Christian minorities in Pakistan and occasionally Indians. 
Others are weak and divided Central Asian organizations, driven mostly by hostility to their repressive states rather than the West. Some of these groups have a mere 20 or 30 members. There is no public evidence that apart from the remnants of Al Qaeda and I.S.K.P., any militant group in Afghanistan has actively threatened the United States. Not a single attack against the United States or Europe by any of these groups has been publicly linked to Afghanistan since 2001.
Critics of the American negotiations with the Taliban are questioning whether the Taliban’s assurances to not allow any terrorist acts against the United States and its allies from Afghanistan can be trusted. 
The Taliban — like any group or state — can be expected to act in their own interests. Instead of trying to evaluate their trustworthiness, the more relevant questions are: Do the Taliban have their own reasons for excluding terrorist groups from Afghanistan? Do they have the capability to do so?
I have observed the evolution of the Taliban’s relations with transnational jihadist groups on the ground. The Taliban’s full-throated fight against the Islamic State franchisee in Afghanistan shows their will and capability to counter a jihadist group that they consider a competitor. 
The Taliban are a nationalist and traditionalist group with no transnational ambitions; these features of Taliban ideology have strengthened over the past four years since the emergence of the I.S.K.P. The Taliban leadership has purged commanders whose ideology did not align with their own in recent years.
Because the Taliban have struck tactical compromises with Al Qaeda in the past, an important question is whether the Taliban will again offer hospitality to Al Qaeda or fail to prevent its resurgence after an American withdrawal. 
After hundreds of conversations with Taliban figures, I concluded that both the pragmatists and the former champions of Osama bin Laden within the Taliban have grown weary of Al Qaeda and its ideology. 
Harboring transnational jihadist groups cost the Taliban their government and sparked a bloody war. Many Taliban members have come to see Al Qaeda as a threat to their cause. There is now little sympathy in the Taliban’s internal discussions for any transnational jihadist group, which is a remarkable break from the Taliban’s ambivalent attitude toward global jihadism a decade ago. 
A clear and public rejection of Al Qaeda and other transnational jihadist groups, with verifiable commitments to prevent them from resurfacing, must follow as part of a political settlement. An agreement with the Taliban that brings them into the Afghan political mainstream would create an opportunity to harness their interests in and capability to deal with any resurgent terrorist groups. 
A Taliban that has made commitments against terrorism to join an Afghan government could be a more effective barrier against terror attacks in the West than keeping troops in Afghanistan and fighting an unending war.
WASHINGTON — President Trump has repeatedly warned that terrorists are pouring into the United States from Mexico, in one of his central justifications for building a border wall.
But his own government’s assessments conclude that Mr. Trump has seriously overstated the threat. And counterterrorism officials and experts said there had never been a case of a known terrorist sneaking into the country through open areas of the southwest border.
Despite the administration’s focus on security threats at the border, a White House strategy document sent to Congress last month outlining steps needed to monitor and intercept terrorists included no reference to the need for construction of barriers, fences or walls. Separately, an intelligence analysis concluded that cyberattacks are the top threat to the United States — not terrorists at the border.
“There is no wave of terrorist operatives waiting to cross overland into the United States,” Nicholas J. Rasmussen, the former director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said on Tuesday. “It simply isn’t true.”
In a rare prime-time address to the nation, broadcast at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Trump was expected to describe a national security crisis brewing at the Mexican border. It was his opportunity to directly defend his demands for $5.7 billion for a border wall — funding that congressional Democrats have refused to provide, fueling the 18-day government shutdown.
Many Latin American countries have border law enforcement gaps — limited law enforcement capabilities and established smuggling routes — that extremists could exploit to harm the United States, according to the State Department’s latest Country Reports on Terrorism.
But, the report concluded, that has not happened.
“These vulnerabilities offer opportunities to foreign terrorist groups, but there have been no cases of terrorist groups exploiting these gaps to move operations through the region,” the report said.
The latest ranking of urgent national security vulnerabilities, compiled annually by American intelligence agencies, puts the terrorist threat from the southwest border low on the list and then mentions it in a discussion of how “worldwide production of cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine is at record levels.”
Over the last several days, White House and Department of Homeland Security officials have relentlessly pushed the case that the situation at the border is both a national security crisis and a humanitarian one.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Sunday that “nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally,” and added that the “most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border.”
A day later, Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor, called those comments “an unfortunate misstatement.”
At the same time, in a memo sent to journalists late Monday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, cited “more than 3,000 ‘special-interest aliens’ — individuals with suspicious travel patterns” who posed a potential national security risk.
“The threat is real,” she wrote in a series of tweets on Monday afternoon. “The number of terror-watchlisted encountered at our Southern Border has increased over the last two years. The exact number is sensitive and details about these cases are extremely sensitive.”
Former national security officials and analysts have pushed back — especially on the notion that terrorism suspects or their sympathizers use the southwest border as a door to the United States.
“That 4,000 number was bull,” said W. Ralph Basham, who served as commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection from 2006 to 2009, during the Bush administration.
“The idea that you have that many terrorists flooding across the border when you have all of these dedicated agents focused on stopping that kind of activity is ridiculous,” Mr. Basham said.
A senior American counterterrorism official said on Tuesday night that an annual average of three known or suspected terrorists — all of whom were on watch lists — had tried to enter the United States at a legal border crossing or entry point over the last several years, and had been denied.
A 22-page National Strategy to Combat Terrorism Travel, overseen by the staff of the National Security Council and under Mr. Trump’s signature, cited a broad commitment to making it “more difficult for terrorists to cross U.S. borders.”
Sent to Congress on Dec. 21, the day before the government shutdown began, the document urged data sharing and improved coordination with foreign partners to identify terrorists before they travel. It did not urge the construction of a border wall.
The only explicit reference to “border security” in the document, which was obtained on Tuesday by The New York Times, is a listing of executive orders that Mr. Trump has already signed. It also included strategies to “interdict” potential terrorists with plans to “maintain the equipment and technology” necessary to stop bad actors and share real-time information between law enforcement agencies.
The 2018 assessment by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence ranked cyberattacks against utilities, communications systems and markets as the top threat to the United States. Published annually by American intelligence agencies, the ranking has not changed much over the past five years.
But the government shutdown has furloughed nearly half of the work force of the Department of Homeland Security’s new Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is advertised as the first line of defense against network attacks. Mr. Trump has also dismantled the office of the White House cybersecurity coordinator, the job that was supposed to sew together offense and defense against the daily barrage of cyberattacks.
After cyberattacks, the top threats to the United States include the rise of smaller, more deadly nuclear and biological weapons; terrorist attacks by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda; and Russian-style influence campaigns and threats to the United States’ space assets.
Counterterrorism officials have long discounted the threat of Islamic State or Qaeda terrorists entering through the southwest border. In some cases, the opposite has happened, said Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of George Washington University’s program on extremism, citing homegrown American extremists who crossed into Mexico to avoid being detected on no-fly lists.
Officials included the case of Jason Ludke of Milwaukee, who pleaded guilty in October to conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State. He and a co-conspirator were headed to the border in Texas, with plans to join the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq, when they were arrested.
According to the plea agreement, Mr. Ludke had planned to work under the Islamic State’s direction and control and recorded a video of himself pledging his allegiance to the terrorist group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Mr. Ludke told an undercover F.B.I. agent that he had training in jujitsu and computers, which he believed would benefit the Islamic State.
Even as Mr. Trump has lobbied for the wall, he has also pressed the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security to immediately tighten security on the border.
On Dec. 27, homeland security officials asked for assistance that the Pentagon later estimated would require 3,000 additional military personnel to be sent to the border, according to memos exchanged by the two departments over the last two weeks. The force could include a combination of National Guard troops, active-duty military personnel and volunteers, but that was not made clear in the documents, officials said. It remains an issue of hot debate inside the Pentagon.
The Homeland Security Department also requested 146 mobile surveillance vehicles to be sent to four border states, along with enough personnel and material to install 150 additional miles of barbed concertina wire. The homeland security memo also again asked Defense Department officials to provide additional aviation support to monitor and control the flow of immigrants.
The Pentagon has not yet approved the request. It included guidelines for Ms. Nielsen and other homeland security officials to “take the lead” on strategic communications intended to highlight the Pentagon’s role. It also made clear the troops would carry no weapons.
KUWAIT CITY — The United States’ attempts to isolate Iran, including by punishing Iraqi militias and politicians who are supported by Iranian officials, has deepened tensions not only between Washington and Baghdad but also within the Trump administration.
American military and intelligence officials said the increasing pressure on Iraq risks infuriating its Parliament, including politicians linked to Iran, which could limit the movements of the 5,200 United States troops based in Iraq.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, whose confrontational stand on Iran has already strained ties with European allies, is leading the push for Iraq to confront its fellow Shiite-majority neighbor. He arrived in the Middle East on Tuesday to speak with officials in Kuwait, Israel and Lebanon about containing Iran.
Under plans recommended by Mr. Pompeo and some White House officials, the State Department would designate Iran’s military Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist organization. It would be a first instance of the United States designating a unit of another government’s military as a terrorist group. American officials said it could put United States troops and intelligence officers at risk of similar actions by foreign governments.
The plans also would designate some Iraqi Shiite militias as foreign terrorist organizations. As a result, the Iranian-trained militias — and Iraqi officials who support them — would be subject to new economic sanctions and travel restrictions.
The proposal was described to The New York Times on condition of anonymity by a half-dozen American and Iraqi officials and experts familiar with the sensitive diplomatic plans but not authorized to discuss them by name.
Mr. Pompeo confirmed Monday night that he was looking at various groups, including the Revolutionary Guards in Iran, after he was asked by The Times on the flight to Kuwait about the proposed designations.
“There may well be other organizations that we designate,” he said. The State Department designated an Iraqi group as a terrorist organization this month, despite opposition from the Pentagon.
The Iraqi militias — some of which were trained by the Revolutionary Guards — operate with Baghdad’s approval or financial support. Several are legitimate players in Iraqi politics. They are part of the Popular Mobilization Forces, an umbrella organization of about 50 paramilitary groups that fought against the Islamic State, a radical Sunni group, and are paid by the Shiite-dominated Iraqi government.
“The Americans can make the decisions they want, but what the Americans see is different than what we see,” Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi of Iraq said last week. “Our position on the Popular Mobilization Forces is very clear and well known.”
Officials at the Pentagon and the C.I.A. — which Mr. Pompeo ran in the Trump administration’s first year — oppose designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guards or the Iraqi militias as terrorist groups, fearing a backlash that could constrain American troops. Qassim Suleimani, commander of the corps’ elite Quds Force and a regular visitor to Iraq, has been designated a terrorist by the United States.
Iraqi leaders were already irate over the Trump administration’s insistence that they comply with American sanctions imposed against Iran after President Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal with Tehran.
Tensions between Washington and Baghdad have only risen through the winter.
In February, Iraqi politicians bristled after Mr. Trump said American troops in Iraq would monitor and pressure Iran. Iraqi leaders are resisting demands by Mr. Pompeo to stop buying energy from Iran — another issue on which Pentagon officials have sided with Baghdad. Iraq officials also remain unhappy by the closing of the United States Consulate in Basra, the country’s second-largest city, where a temporary halt of electricity exports from Iran led to violent rioting last summer.
On Friday, a senior State Department official said Mr. Pompeo’s visit to the Middle East this week was part of the goal of rolling back Iran’s forces and linked Shiite militias. As with Iraq, the pressure campaign has angered leaders in Lebanon, where Iran-backed Hezbollah is a major military force, holds parliamentary seats and runs the health ministry.
Analysts said Mr. Pompeo’s trip and its focus on Iran is an attempt to lend Trump administration support to embattled Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel before national elections set for April 9. Iran and Israel are longtime enemies. Mr. Pompeo has denied such intentions.
Mr. Pompeo has told the leaders of power-starved Iraq that they must stop buying Iranian natural gas and electricity. But on Tuesday, following recommendations by senior Pentagon officials, he agreed to extend a waiver of the sanctions to allow Iraq to buy electricity from Iran. The new waiver will expire in 90 days, in the middle of Iraq’s scorching summer.
If they are forced to stop buying electricity from Iran, Iraqi officials warned, protests could destabilize the government of Mr. Abdul Mahdi, who was named prime minister in October. In February, he said Iraq would not comply with the sanctions, citing the 13 years of United Nations sanctions against the government of Saddam Hussein that took a bruising toll on Iraqis throughout the country.
Iraqi officials now are exploring how to buy natural gas from Iran but still protect Iraqi banks from American penalties.
This month, against the advice of officials at the Pentagon, the State Department announced that it was designating an Iraqi militia, Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba, and its leader, Akram Abbas al-Kaabi, as “specially designated global terrorists.” The group is funded by the Iraqi government, but the State Department said its loyalty was to Iran.
Mr. Pompeo also is seeking to designate a more significant group, Asa’ib Ahl al-Haq, as a terrorist organization. Asa’ib Ahl al-Haq won 15 seats in Iraq’s Parliament last year. Though its officials now say they tolerate the United States military presence in Iraq, the militia fought American troops at the height of the Iraq war. The militia is led by Qais al-Khazali, a former American detainee who is accused of masterminding an ambush in the holy Shiite city of Karbala that killed five American soldiers in 2007.
After Mr. Trump announced in December that he would withdraw United States forces from the fight against the Islamic State in Syria, American officials began quietly negotiating with Iraqi counterparts to shift hundreds of commandos and support troops to Iraq. The initial urgency for the shift has cooled, however, now that Mr. Trump has agreed to leave 400 American troops in Syria rather than withdraw all 2,000. But many Iraqi lawmakers are reluctant to give the 5,200 American troops already in Baghdad and at a handful of other bases much freedom to move or operate.
The terrorist designations could complicate talks over those issues and a range of diplomatic matters by fueling animosity toward the United States. One senior American official said the designations could lead to barring members of the Iraqi and Iranian governments from traveling to the United States — including to the United Nations in New York.
Administration lawyers have been poring over the proposed language for the terrorist designations and their possible consequences. So far, that has kept Mr. Pompeo from issuing them, two senior American officials said. One official said that trying to enforce the sanctions that the terrorist designations would prompt would be a nightmare.
OTTAWA — Maxime Bernier, the founder of a right-wing party running in Canada's October federal election, said on Monday that Liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's warnings about the dangers of white supremacy were an attack on an "entire ethnicity."
Bernier, a former Cabinet minister who quit the Conservative Party last year to form his own faction called the People's Party of Canada, has focused on limiting immigration and promoting free trade. 
His comments on Monday were in reference to last week's move by the Trudeau government to change a report on terrorist threats in Canada that was first published last year to no longer explicitly mention "Sikh extremism." 
"We're told the word Sikh was removed because 'entire religions should never be equated with terrorism.' And yet, (Trudeau) has been warning us for weeks about the dangers of 'white supremacy,' equating an entire ethnicity with terrorism," Bernier wrote on Twitter and Facebook.
"Hypocrite! It's all about pandering for votes," he wrote. 
Trudeau's office declined to comment, but Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale's office condemned the statement. 
"While the vast majority of Canadians celebrate our country's diversity, toxic elements continue to peddle vile, hateful intolerance," Goodale's spokesman, Scott Bardsley, said in an email.
"We condemn Mr. Bernier's attempt to legitimize them. All political leaders have a responsibility to denounce hatred and intolerance, not court them," he added.
The Public Safety Ministry said the number of police-reported hate crimes in Canada jumped 47 percent in 2017, the most recent year for which there are official data.
While Canadian politics are not as polarized as those in the United States, there are indications, especially online, of increasing intolerance in Canada, which has a tradition of openness and welcoming immigrants from around the world.
Trudeau attacked Conservative Party leader Andrew Scheer in parliament last month for not explicitly condemning white supremacy after the mass shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand. 
Opinion polls show that Liberals have lost ground to Conservatives in recent months, with Scheer's party taking the lead. Scheer defeated Bernier for the Conservative leadership in 2017.
The People's Party would win 0.5 percent of the national vote if it were held now instead of October, a Nanos Research poll showed last week. 
 (Reporting by Steve Scherer; Additional reporting by Julie Gordon; Editing by Peter Cooney)
FRANKFURT — The United States assailed the European Union on Wednesday for adding American territories to its “dirty money” list, opening a new rift in a relationship that has grown increasingly fractious amid disputes over trade and Iran sanctions.
Four United States territories, including Puerto Rico, were added to a money laundering blacklist that will require European banks to apply greater scrutiny to transactions in those regions. That prompted an angry rebuke from the Trump administration, which criticized the methodology used by the bloc to add those regions and said American officials were not consulted ahead of their inclusion.
The blacklist lumped Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam and the United States Virgin Islands with the likes of North Korea, Libya and Yemen as havens where drug dealers, terrorists and corrupt dictators can launder ill-gotten gains.
Saudi Arabia, which leads the Riyadh-based Terrorist Financing Targeting Center with the United States, was also added to the list despite its efforts to demonstrate that it is cracking down on illicit financial activity. That decision could further complicate Europe’s relations with the kingdom, which already faces scrutiny for its role in the murder of a dissident Saudi journalist, Jamal Khashoggi. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, has made combating illicit financial activity a priority and has twice visited the center since it opened in 2017.
European officials said the decision was made to prevent illicit financing in areas that are considered risks for such activities.
“Dirty money is the lifeblood of organized crime and terrorism,” Vera Jourova, the European commissioner for justice, said during a news conference in Strasbourg, France, on Wednesday.
“It was high time for Europe to act,” she said. “The times when we would be maybe too naïve about this are over.”
The Treasury Department appeared to have been blindsided by the announcement. Shortly after the list was released, the agency issued a statement condemning the list as flawed and saying American banks should ignore any suggestions from the European Commission to apply greater scrutiny to transactions based on its list. The European Union can apply its rules only to banks operating in Europe.
The department also suggested that the European list was unnecessary because a global body, known as the Financial Action Task Force, sets international standards for countering illicit finance. And it complained that it had not been brought into the discussion ahead of the European action.
“The Treasury Department was not provided any meaningful opportunity to discuss with the European Commission its basis for including the listed U.S. territories,” the statement said.
American officials took the absence of European countries on the list as a sign that it was more political exercise than rigorous review.
Relations between the European Union and the United States are already at a low point. The Trump administration has angered European leaders by imposing tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, questioning the value of NATO and repudiating the nuclear treaty with Iran, which Europe signed onto during the Obama administration. Mr. Trump has also repeatedly threatened to impose stiff tariffs on imports of cars from Europe unless the bloc agrees to drop some of its own tariffs and provide American companies more access to its markets.
The Europeans have annoyed Washington by imposing huge fines on American companies like Google for alleged violations of data privacy, antitrust or tax laws. And the European Union has looked for ways to help European companies bypass United States sanctions on Iran, which Mr. Trump imposed after pulling out of the nuclear treaty.
The deteriorating relationship between the longtime allies will complicate a resolution on trade. Talks between the European Commission and the White House are on the back burner while the Trump administration focuses on resolving its trade war with China. But trade talks are expected to intensify in the coming months.
Sven Giegold, a member of a special committee on money laundering and financial crimes in the European Parliament, said the blacklist was not a political lever intended to win concessions in other areas.
“This has nothing to do with Trump and negotiating strategies,” said Mr. Giegold, a member of the Green Party in Parliament. He noted that the United States has taken a hard line with European banks accused of money laundering, including Deutsche Bank.
“Internationally, the U.S. plays a strong role in money laundering. I welcome that,” Mr. Giegold said. “But it should accept that in America there are obvious deficiencies in the fight against money laundering.”
The four United States territories made the blacklist because they “are attractive for tax crimes and exposed to a higher threat of money laundering linked to tax crime,” the European Commission said in documents published Wednesday.
Some of the territories have also allowed companies to conceal their true owners, and lacked criminal penalties for lawyers or accountants that help criminals launder money, the commission said. American Samoa, Guam and the Virgin Islands are already on the European Union’s list of countries considered havens for companies and individuals trying to illegally avoid taxes.
The European Commission did not respond directly to the Treasury Department statement. As the list was being formulated, “we had a very constructive discussion with the U.S. authorities as we reached out to them about the U.S. territories that are on the list,” a European Commission spokesman said in an email.
The United States was not the only country to express frustration with the move. Panama, which was also included on the list, rejected the decision and called on Europe to clarify its concerns.
“The government of the Republic of Panama strongly rejects the proposal of the European Commission to include the country in a list of jurisdictions of high-risk third countries with strategic deficiencies in its regime in the fight against money laundering and the fight against the financing of terrorism,” said Miguel Verzbolovskis, Panama’s ambassador to the European Union.
The blacklist still faces a formal approval process in Brussels, and will not prohibit banks from doing business with clients in the countries on the list. It merely requires them to exercise more scrutiny.
“It’s not a sanction,” said Laure Brillaud, a policy officer on money laundering at Transparency International in Brussels. “It’s just requiring banks to be more vigilant whenever they have to deal with customers from these jurisdictions.”
Ms. Brillaud said she welcomed the European Commission action, which goes beyond a list compiled by the Financial Action Task Force.
But she said some obvious candidates were inexplicably left off the list, like Azerbaijan, the Cayman Islands and Russia. Danske Bank in Denmark has been embroiled in a scandal stemming from accusations that its Estonian unit helped Russian clients launder enormous sums.
“There are some notable omissions,” Ms. Brillaud said.
Walter B. Jones Jr., a Republican congressman from North Carolina whose district included Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, was a staunch supporter of the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. He had even helped rebrand French fries as “freedom fries,” as a slap at France for opposing the war.
But he had an epiphany one day at a memorial ceremony at Camp Lejeune for Marine Sgt. Michael Bitz, 31, who had been killed in Iraq shortly after the invasion while trying to evacuate his wounded comrades.
During the ceremony, the sergeant’s 2-year-old son, Joshua, dropped a toy. A young Marine in dress uniform reached down to pick it up and handed it back.
“And the boy looked up at him, and the Marine looked down, and then it hit me,” Mr. Jones told Mother Jones magazine years later.
“This little boy would never know his daddy.”
Mr. Jones’s grief at this scene would lead to a dramatic political conversion against the war, putting him in opposition to his own party and President George W. Bush. It also led to years of trying to atone for his earlier support.
Mr. Jones died on Sunday, his 76th birthday, in Greenville, N.C., a statement by his office said. His health had been declining since September. Before he won re-election in November to his 12th term, he indicated that it would be his last. He then broke his hip in mid-January and was in hospice care at his death.
After witnessing that memorial ceremony, Mr. Jones decided to write letters to the families and extended families of every American killed in any conflict in which the United States had been involved since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
“That was, for me, asking God to forgive me for my mistake,” Mr. Jones told NPR in 2017. A deeply religious man, he had converted to Roman Catholicism after growing up a Southern Baptist.
At his death Mr. Jones had written more than 12,000 letters. (More than 4,500 American military personnel have been killed in Iraq and more than 2,400 in Afghanistan.)
“Gradually, one letter at a time, Jones’s doubts about the war began to take shape,” Mother Jones wrote in 2006.
Mr. Jones also began putting up pictures in the hallway outside his Capitol Hill office of all the American military personnel who had been killed since 9/11. As those numbers climbed, Mr. Jones limited the pictures to those of Marines from Camp Lejeune.
A pivotal moment for him came when his daughter, Ashley, gave him the audiobook of James Bamford’s “A Pretext for War” (2004).
In her review, The New York Times critic Michiko Kakutani wrote that the book “draws a scathing picture of ideologues in the Bush administration, manipulating dubious evidence about links between Al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein and flawed information about weapons of mass destruction in the push toward war.”
Mr. Jones’s sorrow over the loss of lives now gave way to outrage over the distortions and lies from the Bush administration that had led to the invasion. Feeling duped, he declared his opposition to the war in 2005 and pressed the administration for an exit strategy from Iraq.
Mr. Jones was particularly galled by Vice President Dick Cheney’s statements that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction.
“Lyndon Johnson’s probably rotting in hell right now because of the Vietnam War, and he probably needs to move over for Dick Cheney,” Mr. Jones said in 2013 at a meeting of Young Americans for Liberty in Raleigh, N.C.
Mr. Bamford, the author, said in a telephone interview that it took courage for Mr. Jones “to change his position on one of the most momentous events in American history.”
“He admitted it privately and came out publicly and said he was wrong,” Mr. Bamford said. “He even tried to bring other congressmen into the fold by having me come up to the Capitol and speak to them. To me, that showed his sincerity.”
Acknowledging that he was wrong “was the genesis of the most important journey I’ve ever undertaken,” Mr. Jones later told Taylor Sisk, the co-author of a forthcoming book with Mr. Jones about the congressman’s regret over supporting the invasion.
Mr. Sisk said in a telephone interview that Mr. Jones had told him coming out against the war had made him increasingly independent, quoting him as saying, “That’s been a liberating experience.”
Walter Beaman Jones Jr. was born on Feb. 10, 1943, in Farmville, N.C., where he grew up and lived most of his life. His mother, Doris (Long) Jones, was a homemaker. His father worked for an office-supply company and served in the State Legislature before being elected to Congress in 1966. A Democrat, the elder Mr. Jones represented eastern North Carolina until he retired in 1992.
Walter Jr. graduated in 1961 from Hargrave Military Academy in Chatham, Va., and attended North Carolina State University from 1962 to 1965, when he transferred to Atlantic Christian College, now Barton College, in Wilson, N.C. He graduated with a bachelor’s degree in history in 1966, the same year he married Joe Anne Whitehurst; she and their daughter survive him.
Out of college, Mr. Jones joined the National Guard and became a wine salesman as well as a Catholic. In 1982 he was drafted by local Democrats to fill out the term of a state representative who had died in office. Mr. Jones served for 10 years, and when his father retired from Congress, he ran for his seat.
Walter Jr. lost the 1992 Democratic primary. He tried again in a reconfigured district in 1994, by which time he had switched parties; a strong foe of abortion rights, he felt more comfortable as a Republican. He won that race and rode into office as part of a Republican wave led by the new speaker, Newt Gingrich.
Courtly and well liked, Mr. Jones was voted the nicest member of the House of Representatives in a 2004 survey of top Capitol Hill staffers by The Washingtonian magazine.
His political impulses were basically libertarian, and he occasionally strayed from Republican orthodoxy. He fiercely opposed measures that would contribute to the national debt and voted against President Trump’s tax-cut bill for that reason. He denounced the influence of money in politics and urged Congress to counter the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision
But after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, when President Bush sought congressional authority to use military force in Iraq, Mr. Jones gave his wholehearted support.
Filled with patriotic fervor, he made perhaps his biggest publicity splash when he pushed for the menus in the Capitol cafeteria to be changed to read “freedom fries” instead of “French fries,” an idea he borrowed from a North Carolina restaurant chain.
He was roundly applauded by Republicans and ridiculed by Democrats. (Tina Fey, on “Saturday Night Live,” said that in France, “American cheese is now referred to as ‘idiot cheese.’ ”)
It was only about a month later that Mr. Jones attended the Camp Lejeune memorial ceremony that would affect him so profoundly and lead him to apologize, many times, in public.
“I did not do what I should have done, to read and find out whether Bush was telling us the truth about Saddam being responsible for 9/11 and having weapons of mass destruction,” Mr. Jones told NPR in 2015.
“Because I did not do my job then, I helped kill 4,000 Americans,” he said. “And I will go to my grave regretting that.”
To the Editor:
Re “The People vs. Donald J. Trump,” by David Leonhardt (Sunday Review, Jan. 6):
When Richard Nixon resigned, we as a country were still capable of being shocked by corruption, obstruction of justice and abuse of power. During the Vietnam War, I remember how outraged we were when we discovered that the government had been lying to us about what was really happening, about the number of deaths. Now, even though President Trump’s abuses of power and lies are far worse than those of Nixon, I don’t see his support crumbling. 
Too many are now jaded and cynical. No matter what the investigations reveal, the reaction will be a shrug: “Well, what do you expect — all politicians are corrupt.”
Impeachment cannot — and indeed, should not — go forward unless there is broad public support for it. But the capacity to be shocked and outraged, or even to understand the danger of leaving Mr. Trump in office, is just not there, either in voters, or in Congress. That’s what really worries me.
Margrit McIntoshTucson
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt lays out a clear and compelling case for why President Trump is unfit for office. Unfortunately, fitness for office wasn’t what got him elected and isn’t what’s kept him in power. Corrupt politicians in other countries use any means necessary to remain in office because the alternative is jail or worse.
Mr. Trump ran for president not to serve the public, but to serve himself. The power of executive privilege, freedom from prosecution and the possibility of self-pardon no doubt motivate him to cling to power under increasing financial and legal peril.
So here’s a deal for a president who fashions himself as a deal maker: Republican and Democratic leaders offer a pardon to Mr. Trump and his family, allowing them to retain their freedom and wealth, in exchange for his resignation. As distasteful as a pardon may be, it pales in comparison to the harm Mr. Trump can do by remaining in office.
Jay MarkowitzWilson, Wyo.
To the Editor:
I believe that a majority of the electorate agrees with David Leonhardt’s observations. However, I fear letting President Trump off the hook, either by impeachment, after which Mike Pence could likely pardon him, or by negotiating his resignation in return for some sort of leniency for his crimes. The notion of his walking free following his despicable presidency is revolting.
So far, he’s made a lavish living by dodging the law and common decency, and should not be rewarded for his deviance. Better to vote him (and Mr. Pence) out of office in 2020 so that legal punishment is still available. That may mean we need to endure him for longer, but letting the Trump presidency off the hook by either of the above expedients would be profoundly unsatisfying and damaging to the country and the rule of law.
Andrew NelsonBend, Ore.
To the Editor:
The problem with David Leonhardt’s analysis is that it suggests that the Republican leadership will return to a fact-based universe, instead of the fact-free one that now prevails. The one where climate science is ignored, where the economic inequities caused by trickle-down are treated as fiction, where every day President Trump takes us all on an excursion into a fantasy land concerning immigration. It is here that the Republican Party has willingly chosen to reside.
Those who have shut their eyes, turned their backs and held their noses for the past two years will not go easily into battle with Mr. Trump. No matter the damage he has done to party or country, they have shown no discernible backbone. While Mr. Leonhardt’s heart is in the right place, I fear that his head may unfortunately be in the clouds.
Robert S. NussbaumFort Lee, N.J. 
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt has written the most articulate, well-documented and soundly crafted argument for the removal of Donald Trump from the presidency. This article should be printed and mass distributed all over America, much as Thomas Paine’s “Common Sense” once was. I wasted no time sending it to my members of Congress.
Joyce GraterPittsburgh
To the Editor:
Should David Leonhardt’s powerful, comprehensive indictment of President Trump not be enough to persuade Republicans in Congress that he must be removed from office, I suggest they ask themselves these questions. Would they ever put their children on a plane piloted by someone with little previous flight experience, someone who had refused to read the plane’s instruction manuals, someone who had just locked his co-pilots out of the cockpit? 
Would they be comfortable if he had said in recent weeks that he felt at “war every day,” had seemed to be more and more suspicious of those around him, including, perhaps, even members of his own family, and had a history of hair-trigger rage against those who defied him? And how would they feel if he had begun to make increasingly rash and dangerous decisions?
The terrifying truth is that all of our children, and all of us, Republicans and Democrats alike, are already on that plane. And as Mr. Leonhardt urgently warns, Republicans had better figure out soon what they are going to do about it.
Eric ChivianBostonThe writer, a physician, is a former assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
To the Editor:
While I agreed with much of David Leonhardt’s article, it saddened me to read this part: “The biggest risk may be that an external emergency — a war, a terrorist attack, a financial crisis, an immense natural disaster — will arise. By then, it will be too late to pretend that he is anything other than manifestly unfit to lead.”
Did Mr. Leonhardt miss the immense natural disaster that was Hurricane Maria? It took almost a year to restore power to all of Puerto Rico, and this certainly proved that President Trump was unfit to lead at a time of disaster.
Jeff WilsonEnglewood, N.J.
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt’s article captured the essence of what are perceived as wrongful acts. What I think was missing is the serious issue of President Trump’s stability, mental balance and irrational behavior. This, I believe, is what presents the most clear and present danger in his presidency.
A 2017 book by Dr. Bandy X. Lee and colleagues, “The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump,” outlines very clearly and persuasively the real threat of Mr. Trump’s power as our president.
Donald H. SauvigneWilton, Conn.
To the Editor:
David Leonhardt makes a persuasive case that ample grounds exist for the impeachment of President Trump. But he is far less persuasive in suggesting that the impending impeachment and resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974 is a “relevant precedent,” providing grounds for hope that Mr. Trump will be removed or resign.
In 1974, unlike this year, the Democrats had 56 votes in the Senate, plus an independent who caucused with them. Accordingly, only 10 Republican votes were needed to remove Nixon from office. Among the senators likely to provide such votes were liberal Republicans (admittedly an extinct species) like Clifford Case, Jacob Javits and Lowell Weicker, as well as middle-of-the-road Republicans like Howard Baker, Robert Packwood and Bob Dole.
Especially following the departures of Senators Jeff Flake and Bob Corker, one searches in vain among the Republicans now in the Senate for even a handful, much less the 20 whose votes would be required, who show any signs of measuring up to their 1974 predecessors.
Steven B. RosenfeldNew York
To the Editor:
One point that David Leonhardt didn’t mention in his cogent case for impeaching President Trump is that many Republicans in both houses of Congress might well prefer Mike Pence — who is, after all, one of them — to Donald Trump, who is decidedly not.
Paul JellinekMercerville, N.J. 
To the Editor:
Thanks to David Leonhardt for so neatly summing up the voluminous case against President Trump. My only quibble is that he actually understates the urgency for removal. When Mr. Trump says, as he did the other day, that the current government shutdown could last months if not years, I could not avoid the queasy feeling that his insistence on a demonstrably useless border wall is, in fact, a smokescreen — that the shutdown itself is his actual endgame.
It is well known that Mr. Trump thrives on chaos, and the shutdown raises that chaos to a new and alarming level. Our systems of law, transportation, tax collection, health care and security (Homeland and otherwise) all risk severe disruption the longer the shutdown lasts. While this could ultimately leave the country vastly weaker and more vulnerable, it would seem to play into Mr. Trump’s — not to mention Vladimir Putin’s — hands. 
As we all wait to see when, or indeed if, spineless Republican lawmakers will finally respond to this clear and present danger, it will be interesting to see if long lines at the airport can succeed where principle, ethics and patriotism have so obviously failed.
Andy EdelsteinBerkley, Mich.
DETROIT — Attorneys for a Detroit-area man accused of providing support to the Islamic State group say their client might be incompetent to stand trial on terrorism charges.
The Detroit News reports Tuesday the lawyers seek a competency examination and neuropsychological testing for Ibraheem Musaibli. The attorneys say in a federal court filing they have noticed Musaibli increasingly struggling to comprehend advice and information.
Federal prosecutors aren't challenging the request made on behalf of the 28-year-old Musaibli, captured last year in Syria. He first appeared in court in July , and more charges were added last week.
Prosecutors allege he received training and fired a machine gun while fighting with IS.
Musaibli's relatives say he isn't an IS fighter, and the U.S. citizen was in Syria to work and study religion.
MOSUL, Iraq — Sitting in a room in a burned-out house here in 2017, a group of Iraqi Special Operations Forces soldiers and I watched with surprise as two Islamic State fighters appeared on the live video feed of a security camera. The two fighters were preparing to fire a rocket-propelled grenade in our direction. But instead of the usual bearded men with long hair, the fighters, clad in black abayas and niqabs, appeared to be women.
As it has lost power and land over the past year and a half or so, the Islamic State has quietly shifted from insistence on a strict gender hierarchy to allowing, even celebrating, female participation in military roles. It’s impossible to quantify just how many women are fighting for the group. Still, interviews with police forces in Mosul suggest they’ve become a regular presence that no longer surprises, as it did two years ago. “After ISIS fell in Mosul, we are worried about ISIS females more and more,” Mosul’s mayor, Zuhair Muhsin Mohammed al-Araji, told me this month.
Islamic State propaganda over the past few years has hinted at and laid the groundwork for this change: In October 2017, the movement’s newspaper called on women to prepare for battle; by early last year, the group was openly praising its female fighters in a  video that showed a woman wielding an AK-47, the narration describing “the chaste mujahed woman journeying to her Lord with the garments of purity and faith, seeking revenge for her religion and for the honor of her sisters.”
And if by some measures, the rise of women as combatants represents a significant shift in a group notorious for its strict gender roles and misogyny — in the caliphate, men were supposed to fight, while women were supposed to stay home and raise as many children as possible — by other measures, the change is not as startling as it seems. The women once married to Islamic State militants who are now seeking to return to the West may claim to have simply been housewives, but from the beginnings of the group, some women were more radical than their husbands. One former fighter from Dagestan told me he knew of women insisting that their husband or sons join the terrorist group. He also knew of women who did not want to marry anyone other than front-line fighters because “they wanted to be a true mujahedeen family.”
For other women, their willingness to participate is driven by revenge, need or both. The devastating battle for Mosul was followed by a post-liberation rampage by Iraqi security forces who harassed and raped women and looted their homes; many Islamic State widows are now willingly helping the insurgency just to get back at the government, people I’ve interviewed in refugee camps say. There are also many widows who, left without incomes and living in terrible conditions in refugee camps, feel they have no other choice but to work for the group so their family can survive.
Although Islamic State propaganda bills the change as “a campaign that commences a new era of conquest,” the move to allow female combatants is born out of desperation. The group has lost essentially all its territory. Most of its male fighters have been killed, wounded or arrested, according to Raid Hamid, chief investigative judge at the Mosul terrorism court.
But an increasing number of voices have warned that the movement has the potential to be even more dangerous as an insurgency. And it’s in this form that rise of women as combatants as well as covert operatives gives the group an edge. When the Islamic State controlled huge areas, it had a well-defined military of men in uniforms. But for an organization that increasingly needs to prioritize stealth, female operatives are a valuable weapon.
After the fall of Mosul, for example, the forces I embedded with often saw women walking through the debris with food and water — an act that would have raised suspicions among the police had they been men, but which women could more frequently get away with. As a result, militants who might otherwise have been forced out of hiding were perhaps able to stay alive.
And some government security forces aren’t always prepared to address these changes in the Islamic State’s demographics. While there are women among the forces fighting the Islamic State in Syria, there are none in combat roles in the army and Special Operations Forces in Iraq.
 Their absence became a security issue during the operation to retake Mosul: While soldiers in the unit I was embedded with typically patted down the men coming from Islamic State-controlled neighborhoods and checked them for weapons or explosives as they surrendered, the soldiers were not willing to touch the women. 
That this made them more dangerous than the men was widely understood, according to Hussain Mahmoud, a colonel in the federal police. And it was women who were responsible for many of the suicide bombings that took place almost daily at Iraqi Army positions during the Mosul operation, according to Lt. Gen. Abdul-Wahab al-Saadi, one of the leaders of Iraq’s efforts against the Islamic State. 
Mr. al-Araji, the Mosul mayor, said that police forces, who today provide most of the security for the city, are working on plans to recruit more female officers, and to add closed rooms to checkpoints where women can be searched — but said he is pessimistic about the timeline.
Civilians in Iraq are certainly aware of the new face of the Islamic State. According to a survey a colleague and I conducted in Mosul in December, 85 percent of 400 respondents said that in the past, Islamic State women were as radical as men and 80 percent agreed or strongly agreed that they played an important role in the group; 82 percent said they agreed or strongly agreed that Islamic State women will be dangerous for Mosul in the future.
If gender roles in Iraq were previously mostly a human rights concern, now they have also become a security concern. A group notorious for its misogyny might be considered ahead of the country as a whole when it comes to gender equality among its fighters, and perhaps, too, in its willingness to see women as fully capable of causing destruction. Iraq will soon have no choice but to rethink its own ideas about gender roles, security and who can be a threat, if it is to keep itself safe.
LONDON — The Dutch husband of Shamima Begum, the teenager who fled Britain to join the Islamic State, has told British news outlets that he wants to return to the Netherlands with his wife and their newborn son.
“We should live in Holland,” Ms. Begum’s husband, Yago Riedijk, 27, told the BBC in an interview broadcast on Sunday. He admitted to fighting for the Islamic State, but said he has since rejected the group.
He is being held at a Kurdish detention center in northeastern Syria. Ms. Begum, 19, was recently in the Al Hawl refugee camp in northern Syria, but her family’s lawyer said she was forced to move after receiving threats.
Mr. Riedijk married Ms. Begum days after she arrived in Syria, when he was 23 and she was 15. They have since had three children, two of whom have died. The third was born last month in the refugee camp, after the couple fled the last remaining Islamic State stronghold in Syria.
Mr. Riedijik defended their union.
“To be honest, when my friend came and said there was a girl who was interested in marriage, I wasn’t that interested because of her age, but I accepted the offer anyway,” he said.
Then the 23-year-old son of a railway engineer, he had grown up in a well-to-do suburb of Arnhem, in the eastern part of the Netherlands. He was reportedly radicalized after watching online videos, too.
He is on a terrorist watch list in the Netherlands, but he currently retains his citizenship. If he returns, he could face a six-year jail term for joining a terrorist organization, according to the BBC.
It is unclear if he has a right to return to the Netherlands, and if it would be possible for Ms. Begum and their son to accompany him.
She had arrived in Raqqa, Syria, after leaving the Bethnal Green area of London with two friends, having watched videos about the Islamic State online. She asked for an English-speaking husband between the ages of 20 and 25.
“It was her own choice,” Mr. Riedijk told the BBC of her decision to marry. “She asked to look for a partner for her, and I was invited.” He added that she appeared to be in “a good state of mind,” and that it might have been better for her “to wait a bit” before getting married.
“But she didn’t,” he said. “She chose to get married, and I chose to marry her.”
Ms. Begum, who was pregnant when the couple fled Islamic State territory, said they had left so that their child could survive. But it is unclear where the family could live now.
Her pleas to return to Britain for the sake of her son were rebuffed by the British government. Last month, Home Secretary Sajid Javid said Britain would  revoke her citizenship.
“In order to protect this country, he has the power to deprive someone of their British citizenship where it would not render them stateless,” a Home Office spokeswoman said at the time, adding that she could not comment on individual cases.
Ms. Begum’s mother has a Bangladeshi passport, but British news outlets reported that Ms. Begum herself had never been there, and the Foreign Ministry in Bangladesh later confirmed that she was not entitled to Bangladeshi citizenship.
The move to revoke Ms. Begum’s citizenship was quickly criticized by leaders from the opposition Labour Party and Liberal Democrats, who said she should instead face consequences within the British legal system.
“She was born in Britain; she has that right to remain in Britain,” Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, said last month. “Obviously, there are a lot of questions she has to answer, but also some support that she needs.”
Ms. Begum said that she did not regret her decision to join the Islamic State, but that she “never did anything dangerous.”
“When I went to Syria, I was just a housewife for the entire four years — stayed at home, took care of my husband, took care of my kids,” she told Sky News last month.
Last week, the Netherlands stripped a 37-year-old man identified only as Outhmane B of his citizenship. He had traveled to Syria to join the Islamic State in 2014, the same year as Mr. Riedijk, and was added to the national terrorism list.
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s abrupt decision to withdraw American troops from northern Syria provoked widespread fears over a future resurgence of the Islamic State. But it may yet have a silver lining: Other countries have signaled they are willing to take back their citizens who joined the terrorist group but are now detained in makeshift camps.
About 850 men and several thousand women and children from nearly 50 countries are being held in northern Syria in detention camps for Islamic State fighters and sympathizers. They have been locked up indefinitely, in ad hoc wartime prisons and refugee camps, by the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, which is allied with the United States.
[A British woman who joined the Islamic State in Syria wants to come home.]
Most of those detainees’ home countries have been looking the other way, despite the Kurds’ pleas to relieve them of that burden. But Mr. Trump’s sudden announcement on Dec. 19 that he intended to withdraw American troops soon has since called into doubt the Kurds’ ability to maintain control of the prisons and camps.
That, in turn, has led to concerns that the foreign fighters could escape or be freed and return home to launch attacks — and to a new burst of activity to repatriate some of them.
“Since the Syria withdrawal announcement was made in December, we have detected a new sense of urgency among our partner nations,” said Nathan A. Sales, the State Department’s top counterterrorism official.
There is no indication that Mr. Trump was thinking about how to manage the detainees when he announced the Syria withdrawal. But forcing allies to consider repatriating their detained citizens may be the latest of a handful of examples in which the president’s disruptive approach has managed to shake loose results.
Since taking office, Mr. Trump has repeatedly undermined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in appearing to link commitments of American military support to member states that lived up to obligations on domestic military spending. His suggestion infuriated allies. But several countries have since increased their military spending, accelerating a previously tepid upward trend.
And in the summer of 2017, Mr. Trump’s bellicose talk of raining “fire and fury” upon North Korea may have prompted the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to pause his nuclear and missile tests and begin negotiations to eliminate his nuclear arsenal. The long-term results of those negotiations, however, remain unclear.
Daniel Fried, a former senior State Department official who retired in 2017 and is now a fellow at the Atlantic Council, said that Mr. Trump’s disruptive approach sometimes appeared meant to produce favorable results. At other times, he said, it seemed pointless — as when allies were denigrated.
But in solving the problem of Islamic State detainees, Mr. Fried said, the president’s abrupt order to leave Syria may prove helpful.
“Unintentionally, it may be that Trump’s disruptive style has had a positive impact in forcing countries to face problems that they would rather kick down the road,” Mr. Fried said.
The prospect of repatriating citizens who had joined the Islamic State, and of trying to prosecute or reintegrate them into society, has raised daunting concerns for many allied governments over security, legal and political risks. Not one detainee from the makeshift Syrian camps was returned to their home nation in the last five months of 2018.
But in January, Kazakhstan announced that it had repatriated about 46 of the detainees, including about 41 women and children. Four American officials said Oman and Tunisia also took back some of their citizens from the Kurds.
A Tunisian official denied that his government had agreed to repatriate any Islamic State fighters or their families. But several other officials said up to nine people among what was described as a large number of Tunisian detainees have so far been returned.
At a news conference last week in Washington, Adel al-Jubeir, a senior Saudi official, said his government was willing to repatriate some 50 Saudi men held in the Kurdish camps.
Several European countries that had previously refused to deal with their detained citizens are now considering repatriating some of them, including Kosovo.
“We are encouraged that partner nations see the value in taking responsibility for the appropriate disposition of their citizens who chose to travel to Syria and fight ISIS,” said Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the White House’s National Security Council, who declined to address specific countries.
Additionally, reports last month indicated that France is close to deciding whether to bring back about 130 of its detained citizens, including men, women and children. Other European countries with large numbers of detained citizens, including Germany and Belgium, are said to be closely watching how Paris will decide, with an eye toward echoing it.
In a statement to The New York Times, France’s Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs made clear that the withdrawal of American forces from Syria had forced it to deal with the detainees.
“In light of developments in the military situation in northeastern Syria and American decisions, and in order to ensure the security of French people, we are exploring all options in order to prevent these potentially dangerous individuals from escaping or dispersing,” the statement said.
Christopher P. Costa, a former National Security Council senior director for counterterrorism in the Trump administration, said the new willingness by nations is a positive sign for a dilemma that has few good answers.
“States don’t always think that this president is predictable in many ways, so if we can enjoy countries taking on ownership of detainees, that is a good outcome of accelerating withdrawal of U.S. forces,” said Mr. Costa, now the head of the International Spy Museum in Washington.
Countries have different reasons for their reluctance to take back Islamic State detainees.
Most are rooted in security concerns about people who may be difficult to successfully prosecute and imprison with lengthy sentences. Even those who pose little or no security risks may be hard to reintegrate into society because of their ideology or wartime experiences, and children who had been part of ISIS through no fault of their own are likely to be stigmatized.
For democracies, there is scant political support for bringing back such a problematic group, although the Belgian government was recently ordered by a court to repatriate two women and six children.
In Britain this week, a debate erupted over whether the government should rescue Shaminma Begum, 19, a British woman who ran away to join ISIS three years ago and is now nine months pregnant and in a refugee camp. She told a Times of London reporter that said she wanted to go home but expressed no regrets about traveling to Syria.
Countries with fragile governments, like Tunisia, also worry about the ability to absorb a large cohort of returning extremists. Additionally, the prospect of repatriating detainees to states with poor human rights records, such as Egypt or China, has raised humanitarian concerns.
The large number of detainees from Yemen poses a different problem, given that the civil war in that country could render assurances for their prosecution or resettlement at least difficult, if not impossible.
One American official described preliminary efforts to cajole third countries to resettle some detainees who cannot be returned to their troubled home nations, following a precedent during the Obama administration of resettling many lower-level Guantánamo detainees in foreign states.
For now, that remains a long-term goal. But another official, Mr. Sales, described early signs of progress in persuading some countries to reclaim their own citizens for prosecution — or at least to keep them from returning to the battlefield.
“That message is resonating now in a way it hasn’t in the past, and I think that is because our partner nations recognize there is a narrowing window of opportunity here,” he said. “As long as the U.S. remains active in northeast Syria, we are better able to influence outcomes. That is why I think you are seeing our partners focus on this with a greater sense of seriousness.”
PARIS — It has happened rarely between European Union allies, and not between France and Italy since World War II. But on Thursday, after months of barbed commentary from Italian leaders, the French government said it had had enough: It recalled its ambassador from Rome.
“This is without precedent since 1940, when Mussolini declared war,” said Marc Lazar, a specialist in Franco-Italian relations who teaches at universities in Paris and Rome. “This is very, very harsh. There’s never been anything comparable.’’
The protest not only demonstrated the breakdown of relations between France and Italy, founding members of the European Union. It also reflected the mounting strains at Europe’s core brought on by populists seeking to denigrate the bloc and forge anti-European alliances across borders, a clash that may play out even more bitterly in European Parliament elections in May.
But now that the populists run the Italian government, Europe’s divided politics have been elevated to the level of diplomatic rancor.
The list of insults, particularly on the Italian side, has grown long and progressively more outrageous as the Italian populist leaders try to score political points at home on issues like migration by attacking backers of the vision of a united Europe — the French president, Emmanuel Macron, first among them.
But the final straw appears to have come on Tuesday, when Italy’s deputy prime minister, Luigi Di Maio, the political leader of the populist Five Star Movement, met in France with a leader of the Yellow Vest protesters who have besieged Mr. Macron’s government with violent protests.
The widening dispute has no doubt had its comic-opera overtones, with its outlandish insults from the Italians — the far-right leader and interior minister, Matteo Salvini, recently said France should get rid of its “very bad president” — and the injured dignity of the French. “Outrageous declarations” had been aimed at France by Italy, the French Foreign Ministry huffed on Thursday.
But beneath the provocation and posturing there is a serious undercurrent, recognized by both sides: a battle for Europe’s leadership between the nationalist forces represented by Mr. Salvini and the self-proclaimed progressive spirit of Mr. Macron, who last summer denounced the populist “leprosy” rising in Europe.
“It’s a confrontation between two very different conceptions of Europe,” Mr. Lazar said.
Mr. Macron’s palpable disdain for the Italian populists, who once tried to court the French president before training their sights on him, has only multiplied Italian fury at the French government.
Migration, which brought the Italian populists to power, is at the heart of the dispute.
On Thursday, Mr. Salvini responded to the French ambassador’s recall with a series of complaints, including France’s closing of its border to stop illegal migrants passing through Italy.
‘‘Stop with pushbacks at the borders,’’ said Mr. Salvini, who leads the anti-immigrant League party, the Italian government’s coalition partner. ‘‘There have been about 60,000 since 2017, and those include children and women abandoned in the forest.’’
French officials say the number is closer to 50,000. They noted that the border patrols were put in place in November 2015, after the terrorist attacks in Paris, and that under European Union agreements illegal migrants should be brought back to the country where they were first registered.
“The policy disagreements between Italy and France were present even during the previous government, especially on immigration, but it never reached this level,” said Nathalie Tocci, director of the Rome-based think-tank Institute of International Affairs, said in a phone interview. “It greatly exacerbated in the last three months.”
“This is also cast against the broader E.U. story, of the big dividing line between national sovereigntists and European sovereigntists,” she said.
The dispute came to a boil last summer over the migrant issue. The Italians, having borne the brunt of the migrant wave since 2015, were outraged last year when Mr. Macron denounced the new Italian government for failing to take in hundreds of migrants aboard the Aquarius humanitarian rescue boat.
The Italian prime minister’s office reacted with fury, saying it could not “accept hypocritical lessons from a country that, on migration, has always preferred to turn its back on its partners.” And it was true that France has made a regular practice of blocking migrants crossing the Italian border.
“The Italians have been justified — a lot of Italians feel that France’s behavior, with its grand speeches but refusal to welcome migrants, is unacceptable,” Mr. Lazar said.
The French said they considered the attacks to be Mr. Salvini’s way of elevating himself in Europe, by essentially punching above his weight. But soon others joined in.
Late last year, the country’s deputy culture minister, Lucia Borgonzoni, a member of Mr. Salvini’s party, took the nationalist, French-bashing cause into the previously neutral terrain of culture, voicing her opposition to Italian museums sending Leonardo masterpieces for a major Louvre retrospective.
And in January, after the Yellow Vest movement exploded, Mr. Di Maio publicly egged them on in a post on his party’s blog.
“Yellow vests, do not give up! We are following your battle from Italy since the day you came about coloring in yellow the streets of Paris and other French cities,” he wrote. “In France, like in Italy, politics is deaf to the citizens’ needs who have been kept out of the most important decisions that involve the people.”
Mr. Di Maio compared the Yellow Vest movement — which sprang from opposition to fuel tax increases and grew to encompass protests over economic conditions — to his own political movement, and offered it the use of his party’s web platform.
But his meeting on Tuesday was apparently a step too far.
Mr. Di Maio and Alessandro Di Battista, whom many consider the party’s leader-in-waiting, posted a picture on their social media pages of a meeting near Paris with Christophe Chalencon, an organizer of the Yellow Vest movement from the south of France who has called for civil war.
“This is the picture of a beautiful meeting, first of many to come, where we talked about our countries, social rights, the environment and direct democracy,” Mr. Di Maio said in the post. “The wind of change has crossed the Alps.”
The French, in a statement from the Foreign Ministry, denounced the meeting as “an additional and unacceptable provocation” that “violated the respect that is owed to the democratic choices made by an allied and friendly nation.”
The French have considered support for the Yellow Vests a direct attack on their government in that it promoted an often-violent street opposition movement threatening the country’s stability.
“If you think about it, for a deputy prime minister of a country to go to a Paris suburb to meet a guy whose movement is considered criminal and has broken windows setting Paris on fire, it’s a dramatically stupid movement,” Ms. Tocci said.
The Italian populists, French officials said, were talented at capturing the rancor of their country for political benefit, but now they were trying to capitalize on France’s unrest for their own benefit, just as they had previously targeted bureaucrats in Brussels and leaders in Berlin.
Some Italian attacks have been considered simply bizarre by the French. Mr. Di Maio recently tried to cast the French as a root cause for the migration issue, alleging that they systematically impoverished their former colonies by printing and backing their common currency, the C.F.A. franc.
‘‘If Europe wants to have a bit of courage, it needs to face the issue of Africa’s decolonization,’’ he said. ‘‘I am tired of speaking of the consequences of immigration. I want to start discussing the causes.”
He added, “The European Union should sanction France and all those European countries that are impoverishing Africa.”
French officials said the currency accusation was a pure invention, and pointed out that many of the countries from which migrants to Italy often came, such as Eritrea or Somalia, were in fact former Italian colonies and the site of Italian atrocities.
On Jan. 22, the French government summoned Italy’s ambassador to France for an “explanation.” Back in Italy, Mr. Salvini offered his own explanation, calling Mr. Macron “a terrible president of the Republic.”
He added, “Macron talks a lot but does little,” and “He preaches about generosity and solidarity and then pushes back thousands of migrants at the Italian border in Ventimiglia and Piedmont.”
Referring to the European Parliament elections in May, he said, “I hope the French will choose someone more representative, more serious and concrete like Marine Le Pen.”
On Jan. 27, Mr. Salvini replied to Mr. Macron’s suggestion that the Italian populists were irrelevant by posting a picture of Mr. Macron with the former Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, whom the populist forces had vanquished.
Peter B. Kaplan, a photographer who captured spectacular views from vertiginous vantage points like the torch of the Statue of Liberty and the masts of the Empire State Building and the original World Trade Center, died on March 19 in Wilmington, Del. He was 79.
His wife, Sharon R. Kaplan, said the cause was interstitial lung disease, which she attributed in part to his inhaling debris in Lower Manhattan after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
Mr. Kaplan first experimented with his gravity-defying bird’s-eye panoramas long before the advent of drones, extended selfie sticks and permissions for helicopters to hover close to skyscrapers.
He persuaded architects, developers and public officials to let him immortalize their buildings and monuments on film in altitudinous detail. He would scale precarious perches with construction workers and point his lens toward the ground hundreds of feet below, or mount his camera, sometimes equipped with a fisheye lens, on poles as long as 42 feet, so he could snap the shutter remotely and even photograph himself.
Mr. Kaplan’s route to aerial photography was serendipitous. With his dyslexia going undiagnosed when he was a boy, he had struggled with reading and math in school; photography became an ideal means of self-expression.
He later discovered photography’s potential for visceral firepower. When he showed his first wife and a neighbor a picture he had taken from the Empire State Building’s observation deck by thrusting his camera beyond the barrier and pointing it straight down, they both became queasy.
He also had to overcome his fear of heights, which he had had little opportunity to confront while growing up on Long Island.
In the introduction to Mr. Kaplan’s first book, “High on New York” (1985), Paul Goldberger, then the chief architecture critic for The New York Times, wrote, “These unusual pictures combine the skill of a professional photographer, the perception of a fine painter and the daring of a trapeze artist.”
Mr. Kaplan’s photographs were featured on commemorative stamps for the Statue of Liberty Centennial in 1986 and appeared, among other places, in his book “Liberty for All” (2002).
He was protective of his work, loyal (he helped establish the Marty Forscher Fellowship to honor a master camera repairman) and relentless.
“Nothing — including sometimes us — stood in his way,” said Stephen A. Briganti, president and chief executive of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation. Mr. Kaplan chronicled the monument’s restoration in some 125,000 photographs over a decade.
He “gave the statue human qualities and characteristics which reflected his deep reverence and obsession for his subject matter,” Sharon Kaplan said.
That he had in some ways internalized the statue’s torch-carrying was illustrated in the title he gave his signature photograph, “Liberté Mon Amour,” and by his choice of a middle name for both of his children: Liberty.
Peter Benjamin Kaplan was born on Sept. 29, 1939, in Manhattan to Dr. William and Lillian (Block) Kaplan. His father was a founder of what is now North Shore University Hospital on Long Island; his mother was an artist and sculptor.
Raised in Great Neck, N.Y., Peter attended Cherry Lawn School (now closed) in Darien, Conn., and Great Neck High School. He enrolled in premedical courses at C. W. Post College on Long Island and Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey, and studied photography at what is now Sam Houston State University in Huntsville, Tex. He also served in the Army.
His marriage to Harriet Avramescu ended in divorce. In 1985, he married Sharon Rosenbush on a platform on the 96th floor of the Empire State Building. (Their wedding bands were made of surplus copper from the Statue of Liberty’s reconstructed torch.)
The couple had lived in Hockessin, in northwest Delaware, since 1995.
In addition to his wife, Mr. Kaplan is survived by a daughter, Ricki Liberty Kaplan; a son, Gabriel Liberty Kaplan; and two brothers, David and Dr. Alan Kaplan.
Mr. Kaplan’s photographs have appeared in exhibitions in New York at the Museum of Modern Art, the International Center for Photography, the New-York Historical Society and the Skyscraper Museum, and in Washington at the Smithsonian Institution, among other places.
They were also enclosed in time capsules to commemorate the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge, the Chrysler Building, the Statue of Liberty and the Empire State Building.
Beginning decades ago, even when security was looser and Mr. Kaplan was fortified by $5 million in liability insurance, he would often have to spend months negotiating for dispensation to clamber up scaffolds, bridge cables and antennas.
He spent 12 harrowing days photographing the installation of the nearly 400-foot-tall antenna of the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York.
“I built my name and reputation on safety and doing things legally, with permission,” he told Shutterbug magazine in 2007.
Mr. Kaplan’s perspectives included the peaks of the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco and the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge linking Brooklyn and Staten Island.
One vantage point evaded him: the Eiffel Tower.
“In the mid-80s, when it was coming up to the 100th anniversary, I wrote to the manager of the tower, the one man who could grant permission,” Mr. Kaplan recalled. “I told him who I was and what I’d done, especially my work photographing the Statue of Liberty. He wrote back, ‘No.’”
Through friends, Mr. Kaplan even enlisted Mayor Jacques Chirac and President François Mitterand to support his case.
“I’m sure he wondered who I was that I could get the mayor of Paris and the president of France to act on my behalf,” Mr. Kaplan said, “but it didn’t matter to him. He still turned me down.”
CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Hoping to limit the spread of hateful ideas attributed to the suspect accused of the Christchurch killings, New Zealand classified his so-called manifesto as “objectionable” on Saturday, making it a crime to possess or distribute it anywhere in the country.
“People who have downloaded this document, or printed it, should destroy any copies,” said David Shanks, the chief censor in New Zealand’s Department of Internal Affairs.
“There is an important distinction to be made between ‘hate speech,’ which may be rejected by many right-thinking people but which is legal to express, and this type of publication, which is deliberately constructed to inspire further murder and terrorism,” Mr. Shanks said. “It crosses the line.”
The ruling is part of a wider strategy by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to undermine the attempts by the suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, to gain global notoriety. She has pledged never to utter his name publicly, and to press platforms like Facebook to deny access worldwide to the manifesto, which was published just before the slaughter of 50 people in two mosques, as well as the video the gunman apparently livestreamed of part of the attacks.
Prosecutors have also gone after people who shared that video.
As of Thursday, at least two people had been charged with sharing the video via social media, under a law that forbids dissemination or possession of material depicting extreme violence and terrorism.
Others could face related charges in connection with publicizing the terrorist attack, under a human rights law that forbids incitement of racial disharmony.
These cases are possible because while freedom of expression is a legal right in New Zealand, the parameters are more restrictive than the First Amendment guarantees in the United States. And Mr. Shanks, the country’s chief official in charge of determining what is protected speech and what is not, made clear that the gunman’s white nationalist diatribe was off-limits.
“It promotes, encourages and justifies acts of murder and terrorist violence against identified groups of people,” Mr. Shanks said. “It identifies specific places for potential attack in New Zealand, and refers to the means by which other types of attack may be carried out. It contains justifications for acts of tremendous cruelty, such as the deliberate killing of children.”
PARIS — France has asked the European Union to amend and strengthen a statement on the bloc's position concerning eastern Libyan commander Khalifa Haftar's offensive on Tripoli.
It also denied that Paris had blocked an EU statement on Libya.
French foreign ministry spokeswoman Agnes von der Muhll said France wanted the text to be reinforced in three areas - the status of migrants, the involvement in the fighting in Libya of groups under U.N. sanctions for terrorism, and ways to reach a U.N.-backed political solution.
 (Reporting by John Irish and Sudip Kar-Gupta, Editing by Angus MacSwan)
BAGHDAD — Along two sharp curves of the Euphrates River in northeastern Syria, the Islamic State is fighting to hold on to the last speck of the vast territory it once controlled.
At its height, the group enforced its brutal version of Islamic rule over more than 60,000 square miles in Syria and Iraq. It is now squeezed into two villages occupying six square miles. There, its foot soldiers have been engaged in heavy clashes with the American-backed and Kurdish-led militia Syrian Democratic Forces who are battling to take back the turf, according to a spokesman for the militia and observers in the area.
While some of the extremists are fighting to the end, local officials say the militants have been surrendering by the dozens, repeating a pattern observed in other cities shortly before the group was overrun.
Even with the end of the group’s self-proclaimed caliphate in Syria and Iraq within view, Western officials caution that this is not  the end of the violent threat posed by the group. It has continued carrying out devastating attacks as it reverts to its insurgent roots, including a suicide bombing that killed four Americans in Manbij last week.
“I think this is the end of a phase, and the beginning of a subsequent fight,” said Col. Sean Ryan, a Baghdad-based spokesman for the American-backed coalition fighting the group. “Now they will resume smaller attacks. Everyone needs to remain vigilant.”
The Islamic State’s ambitions have always been global, and its affiliates in Afghanistan, West Africa, the Philippines, Yemen, Somalia and elsewhere have been growing, experts say. And just inside Syria and Iraq, the group still has between 20,000 and 30,000 fighters, according to separate estimates by the Pentagon inspector general, the United Nations and the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
While many fighters have been killed since those estimates were calculated late last year, analysts say that large numbers have simply melted into the population.
The two villages still held by the group — Marashidah and Baghuz Fawqani — represent the final 0.01 percent of the caliphate in Syria and Iraq. They sit inside the hook created by two bends in the Euphrates. The terrain is lush near the river and then increasingly desiccated farther out.
After months of grueling war that has claimed the lives of thousands of fighters in Syria, the Kurdish-led militia has recently made significant inroads. Some officials are optimistically declaring that the last two villages will fall in a matter of days. Others estimate the final battles, which come as the United States prepares to withdraw 2,000 troops in the coming months, could take as long as three weeks.
“Yesterday, 60 fighters — among them 50 foreigners — surrendered to our forces, and the number was 30 fighters the day before,” Shervan Derwish, the spokesman of the military council in Manbij, said on Wednesday. “The remaining Daesh fighters are split between those who want to surrender and those who want to fight until the end,” he said, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State.
It’s not surprising that a majority of those who surrendered are foreign fighters. The Islamic State, as it established its caliphate in 2014, recruited from 100 countries and tens of thousands of people flocked to its territory.
Unlike the local population, the foreigners often do not speak Arabic fluently, and their non-Arab features mean that they cannot blend in with the local population. Those handing themselves over, including the wives and children of foreign fighters, are bitterly complaining that their local counterparts were able to slip away, leaving them to fend for themselves.
The leaders of the Syrian Democratic Forces say that a decision to alter their battle plan has allowed them to advance more quickly on the Islamic State holdouts.
During previous assaults, the militia usually attacked from a single front. Then came an aggressive counterattack by the Islamic State in October in the village of Sousa that inflicted heavy casualties on the coalition and allowed the militants to regain areas lost days before.
“After that, the leadership took a decision to change tactics, and moved us to attacking on two — or even three — axes so that the small force that ISIS has cannot counter,” said Zana Amedi, a spokesman for the Syrian Democratic Forces. “Right now, the operation is going on two axes — from the north, we are attacking the village of Marashidah, and from the south, the village of Baghuz.”
In recent days, the Islamic State has shown that it is still a potent force by leading back-to-back attacks on American forces.
The first was the suicide explosion at a restaurant in Manbij, which killed 15 people, including two American service members, a Defense Department civilian and a military contractor. The second was a strike on an American convoy passing south of the town of Hasakah, which claimed no lives but was nevertheless worrying because of its targeted nature.
“If they are able to operate in Manbij, which is 300 kilometers away from where they hold territory, you tell me, are they defeated?” asked Mr. Amedi, a spokesman for the Syrian Democratic Forces. “ISIS has power, ISIS has sleeper cells and ISIS has been preparing for this for years,” he added.
“Saying ISIS is defeated means you know nothing about terrorism, nothing about incursions, nothing about insurgent activity.”
LONDON — British citizens who go to designated conflict zones could face up to a decade in prison under a new law.
The Counter-Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 is meant to address the threat of individuals who go overseas to take part in fighting. The measure won't allow prosecutions retrospectively, so those who fought with the so-called Islamic State group are exempt.
The law enacted Friday will allow exceptions for journalists, aid workers and others with a good reason, such as people who want to attend a funeral.
Home Secretary Sajid Javid says the law gives "police the powers they need to disrupt terrorist plots earlier and ensure that those who seek to do us harm face just punishment."
DAKAR, Senegal — As accusations of human rights violations pile up in Cameroon’s two-front battle against secessionists and Islamist extremists, the United States has decided to scale back its military assistance to its longtime ally in Central Africa.
The Defense Department told Cameroonian officials that it would hold off on providing military gear and training programs, opening a noteworthy rift with a strategically important partner in the fight against terrorism.
“The bottom line is right now in Cameroon, they have been a good partner with us counterterrorism-wise, but you can’t neglect the fact that they have — there are alleged atrocities in what’s gone on there,” Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, the leader of United States Africa Command, told lawmakers Thursday during congressional testimony.
American officials have not elaborated on the abuses in Cameroon, other than to say that the United States does not assist security forces credibly accused of gross human rights violations. It was unclear whether the move against Cameroon was in response to abuses carried out as part of the government’s crackdown on secessionists in English-speaking regions, or ones that have occurred in the battle against the Islamist militant group Boko Haram. It could be both.
General Waldhauser pointed out that the American military has provided training on the law of war and ethics to the elite Cameroonian counterterrorism forces fighting Boko Haram. He also said the military was taking its cues from the State Department.
Cameroon borders Nigeria, where Boko Haram has begun ramping up attacks after terrorizing the northeastern part of that country in recent years, and it shares a frontier with the Central African Republic, where armed groups have been locked in religious and communal fighting since 2013.
“We do not take these measures lightly, but we will not shrink from reducing assistance further if evolving conditions require it,” the State Department said in a statement, adding that some programs would continue.
“We emphasize that it is in Cameroon’s interest to show greater transparency in investigating credible allegations of gross violations of human rights by security forces,” the statement added.
The American government has a particular interest in supporting the battle against Boko Haram, which has factions that take orders from the Islamic State. The United States has for years stood by Cameroon in the fight, providing training and military equipment to the nation, as well as to bordering countries. American officials say they have no indication that Cameroon is using the provided equipment outside the Boko Haram war zone in the north.
The suspended delivery of equipment includes four defender boats, nine armored vehicles, a radar system and an upgrade of a Cessna aircraft belonging to Cameroon’s special forces unit, the Rapid Intervention Battalion.
Training and spare parts for a Cameroonian C-130 aircraft and training for a helicopter have also been suspended, and the United States has withdrawn an offer for Cameroon to participate in the State Partnership Program, which pairs nations with various United States National Guard units for training.
Cameroonian officials did not return repeated requests for comment.
Last year, the Cameroon government arrested soldiers after a video was circulated showing forces shooting to death two women, an infant strapped to the back of one of the women, and another child. The video most likely was filmed about five years ago in the north, where Boko Haram operates, when violence was spiking there.
Other troubling videos have surfaced showing soldiers deployed to the Boko Haram battlefield committing abuses.
Separately, Cameroon’s fight against Anglophone separatists, who want to form their own nation called Ambazonia, has produced a stream of allegations of abuses. People living in the English-speaking regions have complained of horrific acts of violence carried out by security forces in a heavy-handed response to a ragtag group of separatists.
Cameroon’s tangled colonial legacy has left it with two official languages, English and French. French speakers populate the biggest cities and the highest ranks of government, including the presidency.
President Paul Biya, who has been in office since 1982, is the second longest serving ruler in the world and has surrounded himself with francophone allies, handing out power to a group of cronies who offer few resources to English-speaking areas.
In 2016, lawyers and teachers in Anglophone regions rebelled, fed up with being sent judges and school administrators who could not speak English. Their protests drew a violent response from security forces, who killed unarmed protesters.
The protests developed into a full-blown secession battle that has put the nation on the edge of civil war. Hundreds of people have been killed, and tens of thousands have fled their homes.
The government deployed elite troops, trained by both Israel and the United States, to quash the rebellion, as scores of separatists have taken up arms and launched attacks against soldiers. Many civilians are stuck in the middle, trapped in villages overrun by separatists who demand that they adhere to strikes that shut down businesses and schools in an attempt to cripple the economy and force the government to give up.
Gruesome videos and photos purporting to show atrocities by security forces have streamed out of the English-speaking areas.
Some of the videos have been disproved; one was from a horror movie set in Nigeria. But some clearly show soldiers setting fire to villages, a tactic that has been documented by human rights groups.
The government has arrested journalists, and Maurice Kamto, one of the president’s opponents in last year’s election, who had proclaimed himself the true victor, was recently taken into custody. The charges against him, including sedition, carry the death penalty.
“Instead of armed confrontations which cause human rights abuses, Cameroon’s civic actors and foreign partners have rightly urged for political solutions,” said Paul Simo, a human rights lawyer based in Cameroon.
WASHINGTON — They think pulling out of Syria and Afghanistan would be a debacle. They think North Korea cannot be trusted. They think the Islamic State is still a threat to America. They think Russia is bad and NATO is good.
The trouble is their president does not agree.
More than two years into his administration, the disconnect between President Trump and the Republican establishment on foreign policy has rarely been as stark. In recent days, the president’s own advisers and allies have been pushing back, challenging his view of the world and his prescription for its problems.
The growing discontent among Republican national security hawks was most evident on Tuesday when Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader and perhaps Mr. Trump’s most important partner in Congress, effectively rebuked the president by introducing a measure denouncing “a precipitous withdrawal” of American troops from Syria and Afghanistan.
The senator’s repudiation came on the same day that Mr. Trump’s own intelligence chiefs, led by Dan Coats, a former Republican senator, gave Congress a radically different assessment of international threats facing the United States from the president’s own. They warned about fresh Russian efforts to interfere in American elections, predicted that North Korea would never agree to give up its nuclear weapons and made clear that the Islamic State is still plotting attacks around the world. They made no mention of Mr. Trump’s top security priority of building a wall along the southwestern border.
Nearly two weeks ago, more than two-thirds of House Republicans voted to overturn the Trump administration’s move to ease sanctions on Russian companies linked to a prominent oligarch, Oleg V. Deripaska. And last week even more House Republicans voted to bar Mr. Trump from withdrawing from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, as he privately suggested to aides several times last year.
“Perhaps as we now pivot to the presidential elections, the Republicans may finally be thinking, well, maybe we ought to recalibrate a little here and understand there are real risks and we have to provide a check and balance on the commander in chief in whatever ways we can,” said Wendy Sherman, an under secretary of state in the Obama administration.
Many traditional Republicans have been uneasy about Mr. Trump’s foreign policy since the beginning and from time to time have pushed back, most notably in 2017 when Congress nearly unanimously passed sanctions on Russia over the president’s objections. But the rupture of recent days comes amid disgruntlement over the 35-day partial government shutdown that ultimately failed to achieve Mr. Trump’s goal of extracting money for his border wall.
“We’ve had a couple of rapid-fire shocks to the system,” said Eric S. Edelman, under secretary of defense under President George W. Bush now at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.
In addition to the shutdown, he cited Mr. Trump’s abruptly announced decision to pull American forces from Syria, resulting in the  resignation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and quickly followed by the president vowing to withdraw half of American troops from Afghanistan.
“There’s no dearth of evidence of the disconnect between the president and Republican orthodoxy,” said Mr. Edelman, a longstanding critic of Mr. Trump. But Mr. Edelman noted that the disagreement has been rooted in Congress. “As you look at the Republican Party in the electorate, I think it’s lining up a little more with the president because I think he’s shifting Republican voters more on things like trade and Russia, maybe on Syria and Afghanistan.”
Indeed, many of Mr. Trump’s supporters have cheered his more protectionist stance on trade and the tariff wars with China as well as American allies. Likewise, many Trump supporters have grown weary of overseas military ventures that never seem to end and therefore applaud his moves to bring home American troops. Polls have even detected a shift in Republican views on Russia, which throughout the Cold War was a unifying force in the party.
In Republican circles in Washington, however, the unease coincides with a critical juncture in Mr. Trump’s foreign policy. His pullouts from Syria and Afghanistan come as trade talks with China head toward a climactic deadline and Mr. Trump prepares to get together next month with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for their second summit meeting after an initial encounter in Singapore last year.
Olivia Enos, a policy scholar on Asia at the Heritage Foundation, said doubts had grown about Mr. Trump’s negotiations with North Korea to eliminate its nuclear program.
“Many initially welcomed the president’s pursuit of diplomacy in North Korea,” she said. “But after Singapore, many questioned whether North Korea was sincere in coming to the negotiating table. Since that time, North Korea has continued to play hard to get, calling its sincerity to denuclearize into further question.”
Some analysts said it was the way Mr. Trump makes his decisions as much as the decisions themselves that rattle the foreign policy establishment. Announcing the Syria pullout by Twitter without preparing the allies or framing the public explanations left even some of the president’s strongest supporters in Washington unnerved.
“I don’t think Leader McConnell or anyone else wants to take the wheel from the president or even give him rudder direction,” said Frederic C. Hof, a former State Department official who worked on Syria and is now diplomat in residence at Bard College. “They want to be sure he’s at the helm and he knows he has a crew. They want real deliberation to take place on these tough issues. They want the president to be part of it.”
The administration has yet to even agree with itself on the state of affairs in Syria. At first, Mr. Trump declared the Islamic State defeated, then said it was not but could be finished off by others.
Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary who took over for Mr. Mattis, predicted on Tuesday that the terrorist group would lose its final stronghold in Syria by next month. “Ninety-nine-point-five percent plus of the ISIS-controlled territory has been returned to the Syrians,” he said. “Within a couple of weeks, it’ll be 100 percent.”
Mr. McConnell seemed less than convinced. In a speech introducing his measure on Tuesday, he took on Mr. Trump’s approach to the Middle East. “Simply put, while it is tempting to retreat to the comfort and security of our shores, there is still a great deal of work to be done,” he said. “And we do know that left untended, these conflicts will reverberate in our own cities.”
While not mentioning Mr. Trump by name, Mr. McConnell directly rebutted the president’s argument about the limits of American responsibility for patrolling the globe. “We are not the world’s policeman,” the senator said. “But we are the leader of the free world. And it is incumbent upon the United States to lead.”
The White House declined to comment on Tuesday. Mr. McConnell attached the amendment to a bill intended to extend aid to Israel and offer protections to state and local governments that refuse to do business with companies that boycott Israel. The Senate advanced the main bill on Tuesday on a 76-to-22 vote, with all the negative votes coming from Democrats.
About a half-dozen announced or possible Democratic presidential candidates voted against the bill, defying their party leaders, who favored it; just one of the potential candidates, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, voted for it.
Mr. McConnell’s decision to offer his measure on Syria and Afghanistan, which has no binding force, was notable in part because he has sought to avoid open rifts with the president. Unlike current or former Republican senators like Jeff Flake of Arizona or Mitt Romney of Utah, Mr. McConnell rarely speaks out against Mr. Trump, preferring to keep focused on mutual priorities like judicial appointments.
But from time to time, he has made a point of staking out the more traditional Republican position. “Look, Senator McConnell has a different worldview than the president does,” said Antonia Ferrier, a former adviser. “He’s a national security hawk who believes American strength in the world is critical.”
“It’s pretty clear,” she added, “he wanted to send a message to both our enemies and our allies with this amendment that many in America continue to view ISIS and Al Qaeda as a threat in Syria and Afghanistan.”
And pretty clearly a message to the White House as well.
WASHINGTON — Intelligence officials who brief the president have warned him about Chinese espionage in bottom-line business terms. They have used Black Sea shipping figures to demonstrate the effect of Russia’s aggression in Ukraine. And they have filled the daily threat briefing with charts and graphs of economic data.
In an effort to accommodate President Trump, who has  attacked them publicly as “naïve” and in need of going “back to school,” the nation’s intelligence agencies have revamped their presentations to focus on subjects their No. 1 customer wants to hear about — economics and trade.
Intelligence officers, steeped in how Mr. Trump views the world, now work to answer his repeated question: Who is winning? What the president wants to know, according to former officials, is what country is making more money or gaining a financial advantage.
While the professionals do not criticize Mr. Trump’s focus, they do question whether those interests are crowding out intelligence on threats like terrorism and the maneuvers of traditional adversaries, developments with foreign militaries or geopolitical events with international implications.
“If Trump tailors it to his needs, that is fine and his prerogative,” Douglas H. Wise, a career C.I.A. official and a former top deputy at the Defense Intelligence Agency, said of the daily briefing. “However, if he suppresses intelligence through that tailoring, that is not helpful. He is no longer making informed decisions because he is making decisions based on information he could have had but didn’t have.”
Presidents have long shaped their intelligence briefings based on their interests and the issues of the moment — be it a Cold War with the Soviet Union or Al Qaeda and terrorism. Other presidents have also told intelligence agencies to focus more on economics. After his election, President Bill Clinton told his briefers that he wanted more economic information. And during the recession caused by the 2008 financial crisis, President Barack Obama had an economic intelligence briefing created to supplement the daily intelligence briefing.
Mr. Trump, finding traditional intelligence briefings less helpful than his predecessors, reduced the in-person briefings to about twice a week. Those sessions from Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, and Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. director, now feature far more charts and visual aids to appeal to Mr. Trump, according to a senior intelligence official.
“President Trump’s economic focus has been evident, including his emphasis on increasing NATO allies’ burden sharing and pressing allies and partners to do more in support of our common interests,” said Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council.
The written reports are still delivered daily to John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, who conveys the highlights to Mr. Trump on days when the intelligence chiefs are not at the Oval Office, according to a former official.
The regular briefings have been a cornerstone of how intelligence officers inform the president since the days of President Harry S. Truman. President Obama and President George W. Bush also received such briefings daily.
For 73 years, geopolitical trends, warnings and high-level gossip have been delivered to the White House regularly by the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies in the form of what is today known as the President’s Daily Brief, or P.D.B. Once a thick binder of reports, the P.D.B. is now presented on a secure tablet computer and produced six days a week by officials at the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies.
On any given day, the briefers would describe terrorist threats in the Middle East, worry about the North Korean nuclear program or get the results of covert missions around the world.
Some of what bores Mr. Trump in traditional intelligence briefings, according to former officials, are the detailed analyses of the activities and motivations of secondary foreign officials. The president wants information about the leader of various countries, not the underlings.
But the president has also shown less interest in details about potential terrorist plots or cloak-and-dagger spy work — the kind of secret information that excites most officials. In his view, too little traditional intelligence analysis examines economics and trade as a fundamental driver of international conflict. “Economic security at home goes hand in hand with national security abroad,” said Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council.
So in security briefings, Mr. Trump peppers officials with questions about economic competition with China, including Beijing’s efforts to gain technological superiority and to achieve trade advantages over the United States.
He has also shown a fascination with Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, repeatedly asking why she will not cut a deal with him on military spending despite his advisers’ explanation that the German government’s coalition agreement constrains Ms. Merkel’s ability to increase defense funding. And he has pressed his intelligence briefers on why Berlin is allowing the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to Russia to go forward if Germany is truly worried about Moscow’s aggression.
Mr. Trump has also repeatedly spoken to intelligence and military briefers about the cost of American bases overseas and the defense expenditures of allies in Europe and Asia, according to White House officials.
The president’s push also has national security officials thinking about the economic angles of international flash points. When Russia seized Ukranian sailors and ships in the Sea of Azov, officials in Washington began studying the implications to shipping. White House officials argued that the Europeans would have the most leverage given their dominance of the industry. But they also argued that by raising the costs of shipping, the Russians were “shooting themselves in the foot,” a senior administration official said.
Intelligence officials have always adapted their briefings to the needs and interests of the current president. But they have never faced a challenge like Mr. Trump, who by virtue of his background and experience, views the intelligence agencies with deep skepticism.
The president has publicly clashed with intelligence briefers over their assessments of the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea. He has also privately complained after national security briefings that, “My generals don’t understand business,” according to a former administration official.
Senator Angus King, the Maine independent who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Trump’s criticism of his briefers could inflict real damage. It threatens to intimidate agencies into softening their analysis or not delivering information that the president needs to hear, he said.
“The problem,” Mr. King said, “is the message sent to agencies: ‘Don’t tell me information I don’t want to hear.’”
Mr. Trump’s skepticism of traditional intelligence stretches back to his untraditional path to the presidency, his campaign and his early days in the White House.
Two weeks before Mr. Trump took office, the top intelligence chiefs — including the heads of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and the N.S.A. — briefed Mr. Trump and his team at Trump Tower on the agencies’ findings that Russia was behind the election meddling. The issue was a touchy matter; Mr. Trump saw any evidence that Russia helped get him elected as an attack on his legitimacy. After the briefing, the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside.
Mr. Comey told the president that the bureau was given a dossier that showed the Russians may have compromising information on him. The disclosure unnerved Mr. Trump and deepened his suspicions of the intelligence community.
Some former officials say Mr. Trump’s view of the competence of the intelligence agencies has improved, largely because of the work of Ms. Haspel and her predecessor at the C.I.A., Mike Pompeo, now the secretary of state.
But as Mr. Trump’s recent criticism of the intelligence chiefs on Twitter demonstrated, he is still frustrated. That is partially because many of his world views are strongly held. He has shown little willingness, over the long term, to alter those opinions.
The tension with the intelligence agencies is also a reflection of Mr. Trump’s status as the ultimate outsider convinced that the Washington establishment’s way of doing business is broken and flawed.
“He really doesn’t have a lot of respect for the intellectual, professional class,” said Walter Russell Mead, a fellow at the Hudson Institute. “Intelligence agencies are bureaucracies, so what the president is getting is this kind of curated feed. The agencies attach a high value on how they do these things. But that is not Trump.”
While other presidents have frequently disagreed privately with their intelligence briefers, they did not challenge them publicly, said Michael Morell, a former top C.I.A. official who has briefed Presidents Clinton, Bush and Obama.
“Bush would say, ‘Michael, I don’t agree with what you are saying,’ then we would have a back and forth and we would discuss it,” said Mr. Morell, who now hosts the “Intelligence Matters” podcast. “Obama would say the same thing. But that discussion was substantive. It wasn’t based on whether something is consistent with your worldview or the policy line you have taken.”
James R. Clapper Jr., President Obama’s director of national intelligence, conducted twice weekly briefings for Mr. Obama, leaving the remaining daily sessions to others. Mr. Obama was a faithful reader of the P.D.B., so the briefings with intelligence officers did not cover the written material but instead offered supplementary material and updates.
Mr. Clapper said that when Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee and began receiving intelligence briefings, it was apparent that “a very different approach” would be needed because Mr. Trump was not a reader.
“So the briefers quickly adjusted to verbal presentations, stressing big points and wherever possible, graphics,” Mr. Clapper said. “That’s not a negative comment since all presidents have their own style of absorbing information.”
Some former administration officials said Mr. Trump’s focus on asking economic questions was just a different form of what his predecessors had done.
“It is not the president’s job to adapt to the P.D.B.,” said David Priess, a former C.I.A. officer and briefer who wrote “The President’s Book of Secrets.” “It is the job of intelligence officers to adapt the P.D.B. to the president.”
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — A Bahraini court sentenced 69 people to life in prison and revoked the citizenship of 138 defendants on terrorism-related charges, the public prosecutor said Tuesday, in one of the largest mass trials ever held in the country.
It also marked the single largest revocation of citizenship in Bahrain, a small island-nation off the eastern tip of the Arabian Peninsula that hosts the U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet.
The Europe-based Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy (BIRD) said the verdict brings to 990 the number of people ordered stripped of their nationality since 2012.
Critics say authorities in Bahrain have increasingly used a law allowing the government to withdraw Bahraini citizenship from people charged with terrorism-related activities to also target political activists and human rights advocates.
The public prosecutor's office said 70 defendants in Tuesday's case were sentenced to between three years and 10 years imprisonment. Close to 100 suspects were fined roughly $265,000 each.
The defendants, of which 109 are in custody and 60 were tried in absentia, can appeal.
Charges against the group include forming a terrorist cell inside Bahrain with help from Iran, launching terrorist attacks, and training and using weapons and explosives. The group was labeled as "Hezbollah Bahrain."
Based on the names of the defendants, all appear to be Shiite Bahrainis, said Sayed Ahmed Al-Wadaei, director of advocacy at BIRD.
In the years since Bahrain's 2011 Arab Spring protests, which saw tens of thousands from the country's majority Shiites demand greater rights from the Sunni-led monarchy, authorities have dismantled opposition political groups, imprisoned activists, forced others into exile and clamped down on independent media outlets.
Amid the crackdown, local Shiite militant groups have carried out numerous attacks on security forces.
Amnesty International said Tuesday's verdict "makes a mockery of justice" and "demonstrates how Bahrain's authorities are increasingly relying on revocation of nationality as a tool for repression."
In another recent mass trial in February, 167 people were convicted, primarily for participation in a non-violent sit-in, said Amnesty.
In May of last year, 115 people were stripped of their citizenship following a single trial with the sentences upheld on appeal.
Al-Wadaei of BIRD said the Interior Ministry revoked his citizenship in 2015 on charges related to his political activism and human rights work. His daughter, born in 2017, to a Bahraini mother was rendered stateless and is without a passport because Bahraini law only passes citizenship through the father.
Al-Wadaei, who is based in London and seeking permanent residence in the U.K., said other Bahrainis who've been stripped of their nationality since 2012 have mostly been Shiite Bahrainis. Many have been deported to Iraq and Lebanon, and a few others have been able to seek asylum in the U.K. and Canada.
NEW DELHI — In the machine tools market in the catacombs of Old Delhi, Muslims dominate the business stalls. But at night, they say, they are increasingly afraid to walk alone. And when they talk politics, their voices drop to a whisper.
“I could be lynched right now and nobody would do anything about it,” said Abdul Adnan, a Muslim who sells drill bits. “My government doesn’t even consider me Indian. How can that be when my ancestors have lived here hundreds of years?”
“Brother, let me tell you,” Mr. Adnan added with a sigh, “I live with fear in my heart.”
When Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, was elected in 2014, it was with broad support for his sweeping promises to modernize India’s economy, fight corruption and aggressively assert India’s role in the world. Five years later, he is widely seen as having made at least some progress on those issues.
That secular agenda was always entwined with Mr. Modi’s roots within a conservative Hindu political movement that strives to make India a Hindu state. Many of his more moderate supporters hoped he might set the sectarianism aside.
But over the past five years, his bloc, the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., has been spreading an us-versus-them philosophy in a country already rived by dangerous divisions. The Hindu right has never been more enfranchised at every level of government.
Now, with national elections underway, and with most polling data indicating that Mr. Modi will return to power, the growing belief here is that a divisive Hindu-first agenda will only accelerate.
The emboldening effect became apparent within months of the 2014 election. Hindu lynch mobs began to pop up across the landscape, killing Muslims and lower-caste people suspected of slaughtering cows, a sacred animal under Hinduism. Most often, the mobs have gotten away with it.
Hate speech began to proliferate. So did the use of internet trolls to shut down critics.
Government bodies began rewriting history books, lopping out sections on Muslim rulers, changing official place names to Hindu from Muslim, and more aggressively contesting holy sites. They also began pushing extremist Hindu priorities, including an effort to locate a mystical river that features prominently in Hindu scriptures. Critics called it pseudoscience and said the search was akin to using public dollars to study mermaids.
The consensus among Indian activists and liberal political analysts is that their society, under Mr. Modi, has become more toxically divided between Hindus and Muslims, between upper and lower castes, between men and women.
“In plain language, they are what we now call communal fascists,” said Aditya Mukherjee, a retired historian, referring to Mr. Modi and his political allies.
“This is something that Jawaharlal Nehru had predicted,” Mr. Mukherjee said, referring to India’s first prime minister. “He said if fascism ever came to India it would come in the form of majoritarian Hindu communalism. That is exactly what is happening.”
India is the second most populous nation, after China. It is a pivotal geopolitical player; its economy is huge and everyone wants to do business here; and it has a long secular history.
Its population may be 80 percent Hindu, but the modern country’s founding fathers, including Nehru and Mohandas K. Gandhi, resisted going down the path of establishing a religiously identified state like Iran.
But Mr. Modi’s popularity raises the question of how long this will last.
It is not simply hard-line Hindus who like him. Many Indians of different political beliefs have been so fed up with the corruption and dynastic politics of the leading opposition party, the Indian National Congress, that they have thrown their support behind Mr. Modi, hoping he spends his energies on improving the economy.
[Follow coverage of the Indian elections in The New York Times.]
In modern India, Hindu nationalist views and corresponding anti-Muslim feelings have come in waves. But by many measures this particular wave of majoritarianism has hit a higher crest than ever before.
Several senior B.J.P. officials said they would not discuss the issue, and the Culture Ministry did not respond to repeated messages asking for comment. In the past, party officials have generally denied accusations that their policies might be stoking violence or hate.
But Mr. Modi’s supporters say the prime minister and his allies are simply restoring Hinduism to its rightful place at the core of Indian society. They argue that there is nothing wrong with emphasizing India’s Hindu history and traditions in a more muscular way.
Many middle- and upper-caste Hindus resent longstanding affirmative action policies to help lower castes, and the special customary laws that allow India’s Muslims to follow Islamic traditions when it comes to family legal matters like divorce and inheritance.
“Indian politics had been geared to the appeasement of minorities, and minorities were dominating the majority,” said Vinod Bansal, the national spokesman for Vishwa Hindu Parishad, a conservative Hindu organization that supports the B.J.P. “It was becoming difficult for Hindus to survive.”
Mr. Modi, 68, rose to power by climbing the ranks of a hard-line Hindu organization known as the R.S.S., whose volunteers preach the virtues of Hinduism and also do martial arts and yoga. They are effectively the foot soldiers of the nationalist movement.
His moment came in 2002, when the state of Gujarat exploded in religious bloodshed. As Gujarat’s chief minister, he was criticized for doing little to stop the Hindu-Muslim violence that killed over 1,000 people, most of them Muslims.
Mr. Modi himself rarely makes overt religiously charged statements, unlike many lawmakers in his party, who have called Muslims “dogs” and threatened to kill them.
More recently, though, as complaints have piled up about joblessness, problems on farms and other economic trouble spots, he has turned more openly to Hindu nationalist themes.
On April 1, at an outdoor election rally in central India, he stood in a cream-colored shirt with a green and saffron scarf around his neck — saffron is a holy color in Hinduism, and a favorite of Mr. Modi’s party.
“Who attempted to defame our 5,000-years-old culture?” he thundered. “Who brought the word Hindu terrorism? Who committed the sin of labeling Hindus as terrorists?”
Many critics of Mr. Modi seized on these words, saying the message was intentionally divisive, implying that only other religions could be responsible for terrorism.
Politically, India’s Muslim minority — about 15 percent of the population — was dealt a serious setback in the 2014 elections. Their parliamentary presence dropped to just 22 seats, or just 4 percent of the total available, the lowest Muslim representation in five decades.
Roving bands of self-proclaimed cow protectors began to appear, mostly in northern India, which is more socially conservative. Their targets were Muslim or lower-caste butchers and livestock traders, and dozens were beaten to death, sometimes with a crowd recording the macabre scene on their phones.
Many Indians complain that Mr. Modi and his party have created a poisonous atmosphere that has dehumanized minorities and inspired the violence.
Senior party members have rallied to the defense of people accused of those attacks, and at times even those few who have been convicted. In the vast majority of lynching cases, though, the suspects escaped punishment, often with the help of state officers.
A recent Human Rights Watch report, which looked closely at the government’s response to 11 fatal lynchings, found that in most cases, the state authorities initially stalled investigations or even played a complicit role in violence and covering it up.
More broadly, state B.J.P. officials have shut down dozens of slaughterhouses; others have set up special police squads to protect cattle. India’s beef exports, which steadily grew from 2009 to 2014, have dropped by about 10 percent. Thousands of Muslims who worked in the industry are now jobless.
Bhani Ram Mangla, chairman of the Haryana Serve the Cow Commission, a state-based cow-protection federation, said he disbanded more than 500 volunteers because the state police had taken over their work.
“Mission accomplished,” he said.
Leftists and human rights advocates are mobilizing, in what little time there is left, to oppose Mr. Modi.
A group of prominent actors and filmmakers recently took the unusual step of sending out an open letter urging people to vote against the B.J.P.
“As we all know, ever since the B.J.P. came to power in 2014, things have changed. And only for the worse,” the letter said.
The filmmakers accused the B.J.P. of trying to split the country with religiously driven killings. They said the party was spreading hate online and propagating “unscientific and irrational beliefs even at international science seminars, making us the laughingstock of the entire world.”
That might have been a reference to what happened in January at a national science conference attended by thousands of schoolchildren and inaugurated by Mr. Modi. One speaker ridiculed Albert Einstein’s theory of relativity as “a big blunder.” Another insisted that Ravana, a mythical demon king, flew 24 different types of airplanes and maintained airports in Sri Lanka.
“We urge all of you to do everything in your capacity to keep this harmful regime from coming back to power,” the filmmakers’ letter said in closing.
Ashutosh, the author of a new book called “Hindu Rashtra” (Hindu Nation), said the appeal of Hindu supremacy was rooted in the failure of communism, which used to have mainstream appeal here, and in a nostalgia for a Hindu golden age.
Many Indians believe “if Hindus can come together and Muslims can be defeated, then India can regain its past glory,” said Mr. Ashutosh, who goes by one name.
Analysts say the Indian news media has been somewhat defanged, pressured by government officials to avoid certain topics, including religious-based hate crimes.
In July 2017, the Hindustan Times, one of India’s biggest English-language newspapers, introduced its Hate Tracker campaign, marketed as India’s first database for acts of violence based on religion, caste or other markers.
Within three months, the campaign ended without explanation. Around the same time, the paper’s top editor was forced out.
“The longer they are in power, the greater the destruction to our institutions,” said Mr. Mukherjee, the historian. “The damage done is not short term; it’s very long term.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
At least 49 people were dead and dozens more injured today after shootings at two mosques in Christchurch in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act.” One man in his 20s was charged with murder. Here are the latest updates.
The attacks occurred during Friday Prayer, and the authorities asked mosques across New Zealand to close. Two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that the police had stopped.
The suspect: Shortly before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white nationalist manifesto online, including a link to a Facebook page where a live, 17-minute video of the assault was later broadcast. Here’s what we know so far about the suspect. 
President Trump promised a veto after senators voted 59-to-41 on Thursday to overturn his declaration of a national emergency, arguing that he had exceeded his powers in trying to build a border wall despite Congress’s objections.
The details: Twelve Republicans joined the Democrats to overturn the emergency declaration. Here’s how every senator voted.
What’s next: It’s unlikely that either the House or the Senate has enough votes to override a veto. But the actions in both chambers could bolster lawsuits contesting the emergency declaration.
Yesterday: In a nonbinding resolution, the House voted 420-0 to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.
The captain of the Boeing 737 Max 8 that crashed on Sunday faced an emergency almost immediately after takeoff, requesting in a panicky voice to return after three minutes as the aircraft accelerated to abnormal speed.
The account of air traffic communications involving the pilot, Yared Getachew, who had 8,000 hours of flying experience, provides far more detail about what was happening in the cockpit.
How we know: A person who reviewed the communications shared the information with The Times, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the messages have not been publicly released.
Related: After a similar crash in October, Boeing officials told American pilots’ unions that they planned to update the software for 737 Max jets by the end of the year. The carriers are still waiting for a fix.
The University of Southern California was once snidely referred to as the “University of Spoiled Children,” but it began an extensive overhaul in the 1990s to become a top-tier school.
That effort has been threatened by a series of corruption investigations, including this week’s revelation that the university is at the center of an admissions scandal involving federal charges of bribery and cheating.
Closer look: The coaches charged, including some at U.S.C., are some of the most prominent in their fields.
Column: The affluent have another advantage in gaining admission to many private colleges and universities: the capacity to pay four years of tuition, room and board — perhaps $300,000 — without financial aid. Our columnist explains. 
Frank Cali led the remnants of one of New York’s five Mafia families, the Gambinos, but he was, according to one law enforcement official, “the polar opposite of John Gotti,” one of his flashy predecessors. 
Despite his low profile, Mr. Cali met with a classic mob execution on Wednesday, shot outside his home on Staten Island. Two reporters  tell the tale. 
North Korean threat: The country is considering suspending negotiations over its nuclear arms program with the U.S., one of its senior diplomats said today. Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui also said the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, would soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests.
Facebook departures: Two top executives, including the head of the WhatsApp messaging service, are leaving after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive.
Volkswagen accusations: The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the automaker on Thursday of “massive fraud” and lying to investors as part of a diesel emissions scandal.
Brexit vote: Parliament has voted to postpone Britain’s departure from the European Union but, in a rare victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, narrowly failed to wrest control of the process from her. It remains unclear how long the delay will be.
Rebuff to gun industry: The Connecticut Supreme Court has cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used  in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. 
Climate protest: Students in more than 100 countries are planning to skip school today to push for action against climate change. We looked at the roots of the demonstrations, which started with one teenager in Sweden.
Snapshot: Above, snow-covered trees in the mountains of northern Japan. Tourists come from around Asia to see the “juhyo,” known in English as ice monsters, but scientists say they are increasingly threatened by warming temperatures. 
In memoriam: Birch Bayh, the liberal former senator from Indiana, was a driving force behind laws barring sex discrimination in education and guaranteeing 18-year-olds the right to vote. He died on Thursday at 91.
News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.
Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman wonders, “How do you break up with someone you like being around but don’t see a future with?”
Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert noted the Senate vote to overturn President Trump’s emergency declaration: “I mean, the last time Trump lost a vote that badly, he was elected president!” 
What we’re reading: This piece in the Los Angeles Review of Books. Chris, your Morning Briefing writer, says, “The South is well-known for preserving its past, but in this essay, a native of Atlanta reflects on two road trips, taken more than 20 years apart, and how little he knew about the history of his hometown.”
Cook: This Guinness pie is worthy of a celebration. 
Watch: Netflix’s “Dating Around” finds romantic tension in the unlikeliest of places: the blind date, Amanda Hess writes.
Read: We collected eight books that expose the mania around college admissions. 
Go: The new Hudson Yards in Manhattan is the largest mixed-use private real estate venture in American history. Our architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, calls it “a relic of dated 2000s thinking.”
Smarter Living: If you’re aiming to help the environment with a “zero waste” lifestyle, a reporter who went plastic-free for a week has some advice. Listing his needs helped him focus, and he went to stores that allowed bulk purchases in his cloth bags or would load his choices into his containers or paper bags.
And Mercury is in retrograde. For once, scientists and astrologers agree: You need not be alarmed.
A reader asked this week to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story. The courthouse is where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.
The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.
He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.
The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.
His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.
It was once a prominent and bipartisan cause: the liberation of Afghan women from the tyranny of the Taliban.
These women were championed by an array of strange bedfellows: feminists like Eleanor Smeal, celebrities like Lily Tomlin and stalwarts of a conservative administration like Laura Bush and Dick Cheney.
In the early days of the invasion, the world heard vivid stories of the changes the war had brought. Women could walk freely outside their houses and put on makeup; girls could go to school. It was a narrative that helped buoy public support for the fight in Afghanistan and deflect criticism about American empire.
In November 2001, as American troops were fighting to drive Al Qaeda out of the country and topple the Taliban government, Mrs. Bush was given the megaphone of the president’s weekly radio address. “Only the terrorists and the Taliban forbid education to women,” she said. “Only the terrorists and the Taliban threaten to pull out women’s fingernails for wearing nail polish.”
Nearly two decades later, Afghan women are all but invisible to an American public thoroughly weary of the war. The future of Afghan women was not on the American agenda for its peace talks with the Taliban — they have been limited to core security issues of terrorism and American military presence. And there is agreement among many Democratic presidential candidates about leaving Afghanistan. Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Amy Klobuchar joined male presidential hopefuls in voting against a Senate rebuke of President Trump’s plans for swift withdrawal from Afghanistan and Syria.
In 2004, Nasrine Gross, an Afghan women’s rights activist, was among those fighting to include a clause on women’s equality in Afghanistan’s Constitution. Today she wonders whether all the support she thought Afghan women had from America was just a fig leaf, a way to make military intervention more palatable to the American public via photographs of girls going to school.
“How angry I am, how anguished I am,” Ms. Gross said last month. She predicted an expansion of Taliban control and a return to past atrocities like stonings and whippings. “Where are these American women?”
It may seem that American priorities have changed and that past concerns for all the girls who couldn’t go to school simply dissipated as the war dragged on. But it’s also worth noting that years of well-publicized Taliban repression of women in Afghanistan did not prompt the American invasion; Sept. 11 did.
Afghan women were never at the heart of American strategic interests, said Barnett Rubin, an Afghanistan expert at New York University who worked on Afghan issues in the Obama administration. Military goals came first.
“You do things for people in order to get a permissive environment to help your military operation,” he said.
Still, many in the administration did support the idea of expanding rights for women, and the United States, along with European governments and nongovernmental organizations, allocated substantial aid toward that end. 
The aid has made a real difference. In the 17 years since the invasion, education for girls has spread; today they make up about 40 percent of the country’s elementary school students and about 35 percent of its middle and high school students, according to the Feminist Majority Foundation, a Virginia-based organization led by Ms. Smeal that has been an advocate for Afghan women for more than two decades. Women now make up nearly a third of civil servants, according to the foundation, and have been encouraged to become police officers and judges. And a network of women’s shelters has been established across the country.
Yet very conservative attitudes prevail in many areas outside Kabul, the capital, and women who enter men’s worlds like law enforcement have often been attacked or threatened.
In the current peace talks, the United States wants a Taliban promise not to shelter terrorist groups like Al Qaeda in exchange for a military withdrawal. It is leaving other issues like women’s rights to separate talks, not yet even agreed to, between the Taliban and the Afghan government, which pledges to preserve women’s progress.
Signals from the Taliban have been discouraging. In interviews, diplomats speak about a group that seems emboldened. Mariam Safi, director of the Organization for Policy Research and Development Studies in Kabul, said she was told that during talks in Moscow with Afghans who are not part of the government, the Taliban said women could go to school and hold political office but not become judges or president. They regard the Constitution, with its commitment to women’s equality, as illegitimate and imposed by America.
Afghan women are speaking up, at home and abroad. They are insisting they be at the negotiating table during future talks; more than 700 gathered recently to urge that the peace they desire not come at their expense.
“The talks are behind closed doors — it’s not transparent,” said Sima Samar, chairwoman of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. “We’ve heard nothing about the discussion of women. The Taliban keep saying we will give women rights based in Shariah. Women here are very, very worried and I think we are all united in saying we are not going back.”
Both Ms. Smeal and Mrs. Bush have continued to speak out about Afghan women over the years, but Ms. Smeal said the absence of women’s rights from the talks’ agenda so far has infused a new sense of urgency. “Now we’re all waking up to the problem,” she said.
Ms. Smeal said she was talking to members of Congress, bringing up the issue at the United Nations and trying to reignite bipartisan alarm, including signing a letter objecting to the withdrawal plans along with a scholar from the conservative American Enterprise Institute. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and the only woman on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was among several Democrats who wrote a letter urging that the Trump administration ensure that women’s rights are protected during withdrawal negotiations.
But neither the public nor the Trump administration seems to be listening — at least not so far.
Ms. Safi and Dr. Rubin pointed out that Afghan women have been victims of 40 years of war — killed during Taliban attacks and American and Afghan troops’ night raids or bombings.
Dr. Rubin believes a political settlement between the Afghan government and the Taliban is the only answer because the Taliban are not going away; he argues for a gradual withdrawal to ensure the Taliban live up to their commitments. “Don’t think the U.S. is going to protect you from your own fellow Afghans forever,” he said. “The best fight for women’s rights is not to wage wars that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. It’s not like war is good for women.”
Afghan women do, indeed, long for peace. But the Taliban’s track record leaves them wary, and they fear that the United States, like other great powers, sided with them only when convenient and is all too ready to abandon them when it is not.
“Women were pawns in the game in 2001,” Ms. Safi said. “And now they are again.”
In a meeting with cabinet officials on Wednesday, President Trump spoke about walls, wheels and foreign affairs, including a recollection of world history that startled an ally in the United States’ longest war.
The Soviet Union, Mr. Trump said, invaded Afghanistan in 1979 “because terrorists were going to Russia.”
“They were right to be there,” he added. “The problem is it was a tough fight.”
On Thursday, Afghan officials contested Mr. Trump’s account — which was also at odds with the State Department’s Office of the Historian and historians, generally.
The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979, after it fell into civil war, and occupied it until 1989, propping up “a friendly and socialist government on its border,” according to the Office of the Historian. The United States and its allies condemned the brutal, long-running war, and Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan supplied aid to Afghan insurgents fighting the Soviet Army.
In a statement on Thursday, the office of President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan recalled this era, saying, “After the invasion by the Soviet Union, all presidents of America not only denounced this invasion but remained supporters of this holy jihad of the Afghans.”
During this war, the statement said, Afghans did not threaten other countries, but rather “started a national uprising to earn liberation of their holy soil.”
Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani made similar remarks, writing on Twitter that the “Soviet occupation was a grave violation of Afghanistan’s territorial integrity” and national sovereignty. Any other depictions defy historical fact, he said.
Mr. Trump also suggested that the subsequent war and occupation caused the downfall of the Soviet Union, saying: “Russia used to be the Soviet Union. Afghanistan made it Russia, because they went bankrupt fighting in Afghanistan.”
The war was costly for the Soviet Union — about 15,000 of its personnel died — but other significant factors included economic mismanagement, an expensive arms race with the United States and liberalizing reforms in the late 1980s, according to the Center for European Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The invasion and occupation had a profound effect on Afghanistan, driving millions to flee the country and leaving hundreds of thousands dead. A civil war followed the Soviet withdrawal.
Afghanistan’s current war, fought alongside the United States against the Taliban, appears to be locked in a stalemate as it enters its 18th year. In his statement, Mr. Ghani stressed the importance of international forces in Afghanistan — last month Mr. Trump ordered the military to withdraw roughly 7,000 troops from the country — and requested clarification about whether the president’s statements had any implication for American policy.
He announced his mass killing over social media and filmed it live on the internet. He shared a 74-page online manifesto peppered with sarcastic jokes about popular culture, repeating well-known internet memes and striving to mint new ones.
He even laid out his explanation in a “Q. and A.” format, as though in an interview, with asides to imagine the reactions.
“I am sure the journalists will love that,” he wrote, after answering, “yes,” to his own question, “Were/are you a fascist?”
The man accused of killing 49 people on Friday in a shooting spree at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, identified in court papers on Saturday as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, is a 28-year-old body builder and personal trainer from the small town of Grafton, Australia. He is the son of a local garbage man who made a hobby of competing in Ironman triathlons.
[Read more about the shooting suspect Brenton Tarrant's hometown.]
But after the death of his father, in 2010, the suspect’s life took him in an unexpected direction. He invested in cryptocurrency, quit his gym job and took an idiosyncratic tour through North Korea, Pakistan, Eastern Europe, France and elsewhere.
And his travels — apparently solo — plunged him deeply into the online world of white-nationalist message boards.
Mr. Tarrant now appears to have become the first accused mass murderer to conceive of the killing itself as a meme; it seems he was both inspired by the world of social media and performing for it, hoping his video, images and text would go viral.
“Terrorism is the propaganda of the deed, and the terrorist is always as interested in his audience as his victim,” said Reid Meloy, a forensic psychologist and consultant to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, paraphrasing the 19th-century Russian anarchist Mikhail Bakunin.
“But social media makes this vector much more powerful,” Dr. Meloy said. “We become host to the virus, and we accelerate its spread.”
The suspect’s parents were divorced early in his childhood, according to his father’s obituary in The Daily Examiner, of Grafton. Mr. Tarrant’s mother was not mentioned in the obituary, suggesting she may have been estranged from the father.
According to the obituary, the father competed in 75 triathlon competitions, including grueling Ironman triathlons in both Australia and Hawaii.
A woman with the same name as Mr. Tarrant’s sister played the drums in local rock bands, according to local news reports.
“Just a ordinary White man” from “a working class, low income family,” Mr. Tarrant wrote in his manifesto. “I had a regular childhood, without any great issues. I had little interest in education during my schooling, barely achieving a passing grade. I did not attend University as I had no great interest in anything offered in the Universities to study.”
It is unclear how he developed an interest in cryptocurrency but he wrote in his manifesto that his profits from investing in the cryptocurrency Bitconnect enabled him to travel.
[Read about the challenges of reporting on a shooting that was set up “as almost an internet performance.”]
Australian news outlets on Friday published a photograph of him with a tour group near the Samjiyon Grand Monument in North Korea. His manifesto alludes to visits to Poland, Ukraine, Iceland and Argentina as well.
References throughout his manifesto indicate that he was deeply immersed in white nationalist internet forums. He also appears to have developed a detailed interest in American politics.
To make his case for the effectiveness of memes, he pointed to a candidate in the 2016 Republican presidential primary he evidently found boring: “No one is inspired by Jeb Bush.”
“Were/are you a supporter of Donald Trump?” Mr. Tarrant asked himself in the manifesto. “As a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose? Sure. As a policy maker and leader? Dear god no.”
He wrote that in some ways his attack was specifically aimed at an American audience.
“I chose firearms for the affect it would have on social discourse, the extra media coverage they would provide and the affect it could have on the politics of the United States and thereby the political situation of the world,” he wrote.
He hoped “to create conflict between the two ideologies within the United States on the ownership of firearms in order to further the social, cultural, political and racial divide,” thus “ensuring the death of the ‘melting pot’ pipe dream.”
He claimed he was not the type to seek fame.
“I will be quickly forgotten,” he added. “Which I don’t mind. After all I am a private and mostly introverted person.”
Mr. Tarrant is hardly the first accused killer to take a cue from social media or relish its reaction.
In 2015, a gunman in Roanoke, Va., sought to stream video of his killing of two local television journalists. The next year, a gunman attacking an Orlando, Fla., nightclub paused between shots to post on his own Facebook page.
But mass murderers often seek to innovate to outdo their predecessors, including through the exploitation of the media, Mr. Meloy, the forensic psychologist, noted, and Mr. Tarrant appears to have broken new ground in his self-conscious efforts to surf the waves of internet fandom.
He opened his video of his killing by reciting the slogan of the preteen and adolescent fans of a wildly popular YouTube channel largely devoted to humor and video games (although also sometimes touched by accusations of anti-Semitic or anti-Muslim bigotry): “Remember, lads, subscribe to PewDiePie.”
The creator of PewDiePie, Felix Kjellberg, posted on Twitter that he was “sickened” by the association, and in the process inevitably helped publicize the killing.
“Were you taught violence and extremism by video games, music, literature, cinema?” Mr. Tarrant asked himself, answering with sarcasm: “Yes. Spyro the dragon 3 taught me ethnonationalism. Fortnite trained me to be a killer and to floss on the corpses of my enemies.”
Spyro the Dragon and Fortnite are both popular video games, and “the floss” is a dance move popular with grade schoolers that characters in Fortnite sometimes perform.
He even urged other white nationalists to be creative.
“Paint, write, sing, dance, recite poetry. Hell, even meme,” Mr. Tarrant wrote. “Memes have done more for the ethnonationalist movement than any manifesto.”
He later recommended “edgy humour and memes” and appealing “to the anger and black comedic nature of the present.”
By his own account, he was radicalized during a one-month period during his travels in Europe in spring 2017.
On April 7 of that year, an Uzbek asylum seeker deliberately drove a truck into a crowd in Stockholm, Sweden, killing five people in what the authorities called an act of terrorism.
A month later, on May 7, the anti-immigrant French presidential candidate Marine le Pen — whom Mr. Tarrant described as “milquetoast” because she called for the deportation of only illegal immigrants — was defeated by the liberal President Emmanuel Macron.
“I found my emotions swinging between fuming rage and suffocating despair at the indignity of the invasion of France,” he wrote, referring to the immigrants he saw there.
His current address is in Dunedin, New Zealand, according to court papers. He wrote in his manifesto that he began planning an attack about two years ago and settled on the mosques in Christchurch two months ago.
He initially wrote a much longer manifesto, extending to 240 pages, he wrote. But he appeared to have had second thoughts.
“In a moment of unbridled self-criticism,” he wrote, “I deleted the entire work and started again, two weeks before the attack itself.”
He wrote that he intended to survive the attack. But as he wrote he appeared to wrestle with the likelihood that he would perish.
His questions to himself toggle between the present and past tense, as though he is unsure if he will be alive at the time of his imagined interview.
“I will see you in Valhalla,” he wrote at the end.
The primary suspect in the shooting aboard a Dutch tram that left three people dead and five wounded confessed on Friday to the attack, and said that he acted alone, prosecutors said.
The public prosecutor’s office has said that it intends to bring terrorism charges against the suspect, Gokmen Tanis, in the attack Monday morning in the city of Utrecht, the Netherlands, but it is also investigating whether he had other motives.
Mr. Tanis confessed in a closed court hearing on Friday, the office said — his first appearance in court since he was arrested hours after the shooting. The judge ordered him held for 14 days, the maximum allowed in an initial hearing, but pretrial detention can be extended up to 90 days.
“The 37-year-old suspect admitted to a judge the criminal facts he was suspected of. He also testified that he acted alone,” prosecutors said in a statement. “It is in the best interest of the investigation not to say anything further about his testimony.”
The authorities had said they believed Mr. Tanis was the sole attacker on the tram in Utrecht, just southeast of Amsterdam, but they were looking into whether other people aided him in some way.
Prosecutors said on Friday that a man who had been held since Tuesday in the case had been released, just as two others were freed earlier in the week, leaving Mr. Tanis as the sole suspect in custody.
Mr. Tanis, a native of Turkey who reportedly has lived most of his life in the Netherlands, was reportedly facing a rape charge at the time of the shooting and has an extensive history of arrests.
Acquaintances, neighbors and co-workers have described him as erratic and sometimes violent, and said that he had recently espoused a radical form of Islam.
On Thursday, the prosecutor’s office said it would seek an examination of his mental state. Investigators were still trying to determine whether he “acted out of solely terrorist motive or his actions came from personal problems in combination with radicalized ideology,” the office said in a statement.
Despite initial speculation that the shooting stemmed from a domestic dispute, the authorities say they have found no evidence that Mr. Tanis knew any of the victims.
The Netherlands has mostly been spared the major terrorist attacks that have struck Belgium, France and Britain in recent years.
The speech on Thursday by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo at the American University in Cairo, laying out the Trump administration’s Middle East objectives, was strikingly at odds with a famed speech made by President Barack Obama in the same city nearly a decade ago.
Mr. Pompeo blamed the prior White House administration for “fundamental misunderstandings” that “adversely affected the lives of hundreds of millions of people in Egypt and across the region.”
Mr. Obama’s own speech in 2009 reads a little like an inversion of the Trump administration’s view. Here are some points of comparison:
“I have come here to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world,” Mr. Obama said, a theme that became the focus of much of his message to the Middle East. His policy aimed to “acknowledge the past” and work toward shared goals “based on mutual interest and mutual respect.”
Mr. Pompeo criticized the prior administration’s “reluctance to wield our influence” and asserted that under the Obama administration, the United States had been “falsely seeing ourselves as a force for what ails the Middle East.”
Mr. Obama adamantly supported a two-state solution, asserting America’s “unbreakable” bond with Israel while condemning Israeli policies that he said had undermined efforts to resolve one of the world’s most protracted conflicts.
Mr. Pompeo said little about the peace process and made no mention of a two-state solution, stating that the “Trump administration will also continue to press for a real and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.” Messages of support for Israel were woven prominently throughout the address.
Mr. Obama opened the door to talks with Iran in 2009, acknowledging “a tumultuous history” and arguing that cooperation with Tehran was in the region’s interests.
Mr. Pompeo focused much of his speech on denouncing Iran, and criticized Mr. Obama’s willingness to negotiate with Iranian leaders.
Mr. Obama did not use the words “terrorism” or “terrorist,” opting for “violent extremists” to describe radical militant groups who carry out attacks in the name of Islam.
Mr. Pompeo called Mr. Obama’s portrayal of these groups “a dire misjudgment” that had helped spread Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq. He said now, “America has confronted the ugly reality of radical Islamism.”
Mr. Obama tried to walk a line between promoting democracy and supporting authoritarian leaders. He stressed free speech, the rule of law, women’s rights and religious tolerance:
Mr. Pompeo made little mention of democracy and no mention of human rights. He conspicuously avoided criticism of America’s authoritarian allies, most notably Saudi Arabia.
President Obama called Iraq “a war of choice,” acknowledged the American role “in the overthrow of a democratically elected Iranian government” and asserted that colonialism and Cold War politics had denied Muslim-majority nations rights and opportunities.
Mr. Pompeo took the opposite approach:
Mr. Obama quoted the Quran, the Bible and the Talmud, used Arabic phrases and generally wove religion throughout the speech to argue that Islam, like Christianity and Judaism, promotes tolerance and nonviolence:
Mr. Pompeo, an evangelical Christian, began his address with a nod to his faith. He then criticized Mr. Obama for what he called “an eagerness to address only Muslims, not nations” that “ignored the rich diversity of the Middle East, and frayed old bonds.”
One clear point of agreement between Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Obama: a plan to withdraw troops. In 2009, for Mr. Obama, that meant focusing on Iraq and Afghanistan and a transition to supporting local forces.
Mr. Pompeo focused on President Trump’s announcement that American troops would withdraw from Syria, where they have been part of a coalition fighting the Islamic State. He said now was the time for other partners to step in.
RALEIGH, N.C. — North Carolina officials on Thursday ordered a new contest in the Ninth Congressional District after the Republican candidate, confronted by evidence that his campaign had financed an illegal voter-turnout effort, called for a new election.
The unanimous ruling by the five-member Board of Elections was a startling — and, for Republicans, embarrassing — conclusion to a case that has convulsed North Carolina since November.
And it followed testimony that outlined how a political operative had orchestrated an absentee ballot scheme to try to sway the race in favor of Mark Harris, the Republican candidate. It is now the single undecided House contest in last year’s midterms.
Robert Cordle, the state board’s chairman, cited “the corruption, the absolute mess with the absentee ballots” when he called for a new election. “It was certainly a tainted election,” he said.
Mr. Harris had a 905-vote lead over his Democratic opponent, Dan McCready, but his success in Bladen County — where he won 61 percent of absentee ballots even though Republicans there accounted for just 19 percent of them — alarmed regulators.
When he finally took the stand Thursday morning, Mr. Harris denied knowing of any wrongdoing in the voter-turnout effort led by L. McCrae Dowless Jr., a veteran political operative known as a local “guru of elections.”
But in a series of questions, Mr. Harris stumbled and appeared to mislead the board. When he returned to the crowded courtroom after a lunch recess, he asked whether he could read a statement. He apologized to the board and explained that recent medical issues, including two strokes, had impaired his abilities and recall.
And then he asked for a new election.
“It’s become clear to me that the public’s confidence in the Ninth District’s general election has been undermined to an extent that a new election is warranted,” Mr. Harris said to audible gasps.
Mr. Harris’s surprise announcement represented an abrupt collapse of the Republican effort to stave off a new vote in the Ninth, which includes part of Charlotte and runs through much of southeastern North Carolina.
His political surrender came after a damaging 24 hours for him and his supporters. He acknowledged that some of his testimony on Thursday morning had been “incorrect.” Hours earlier, state officials had accused the Harris campaign of withholding incriminating records that were subpoenaed months ago.
The board’s decision will leave the Ninth District without representation in Congress for at least several months. It was not clear whether Mr. Harris would run in the new election, which has not been scheduled.
Mr. McCready said, “Today was a great step forward for democracy in North Carolina.”
“From the moment the first vote was stolen in North Carolina, from the moment the first voice was silenced by election fraud, the people have deserved justice,” he said.
Robin Hayes, the chairman of the North Carolina Republican Party, said the party supported Mr. Harris’s decision “on behalf of the voters.”
The Ninth District controversy ranks among the highest-profile examples of modern election fraud, and also underscores how absentee ballots remain susceptible to abuse.
Witnesses this week have described an enterprise that was rife with misconduct, including the collection and completion of absentee ballots. Witnesses said that both actions, which are illegal in North Carolina, had occurred repeatedly.
If Mr. Harris does run, he will almost certainly be seen from the start as a hobbled candidate. Even before allegations of fraud swamped his bid, Mr. Harris was far from a universally beloved figure in his party. A campaign for Senate in 2014 faltered. So, too, did a run for the Ninth District’s House seat in 2016.
By Mr. Harris’s own account on the stand Thursday, it was his narrow defeat in the 2016 race that set a course toward the board’s decision. By March 2017, according to a text message turned over to investigators only on Wednesday, Mr. Harris was communicating with a political ally in Bladen County, a rural part of the district, about “the guy whose absentee ballot project for Johnson could have put me in the US House this term, had I known, and he had been helping us.”
“Johnson” was Todd Johnson, one of Mr. Harris’s rivals in the 2016 race, and “the guy” was Mr. Dowless, a Bladen County operative with a felony record and a reputation for shadowy work for Democratic and Republican politicians. Mr. Dowless and Mr. Harris met in a furniture showroom about a month later.
“How did you beat us so bad?” Mr. Harris said he had asked Mr. Dowless about the 2016 race. Mr. Dowless then explained a two-phase effort that concentrated on absentee ballots.
In the first phase, Mr. Harris testified, Mr. Dowless and his associates would help voters submit requests for absentee ballots — an ordinary and legal political activity in North Carolina. In the second, workers would ensure that voters had received the ballots and would inquire whether they needed assistance.
But under no circumstances, Mr. Harris was assured, were the workers to collect the ballots.
Two weeks after the meeting, Mr. Harris pulled out his personal checkbook and paid a $450 retainer. The next month, before Mr. Harris entered the congressional race, he paid Mr. Dowless another $2,890.
Mr. Dowless and his associates, who were often his acquaintances or relatives with little interest in politics but hoping for fast cash, went to work. Mr. Dowless, who refused to testify before the board, has not been charged with any crimes in connection with the 2018 election, nor have any of his workers. Prosecutors are examining the operation, though, and are considering whether to bring any criminal charges.
[Read: Inside a Fly-by-Night Operation to Harvest Ballots in North Carolina]
Within weeks of the election, state officials opened an investigation and declined to certify Mr. Harris as the winner, setting up this week’s extraordinary proceedings.
For Mr. Harris’s campaign, the hearing was disastrous from its opening moments, when Kim Strach, the executive director of the state board, said investigators had found “a coordinated, unlawful and substantially resourced absentee ballot scheme” that appeared to have cost tens of thousands of dollars.
Two witnesses described an array of misdeeds that they committed at Mr. Dowless’s behest — accounts that observers believed that, on their own, might have been enough to warrant a new election. But the state’s investigators had a surprise witness: one of Mr. Harris’s sons, John Harris, a 29-year-old Justice Department lawyer who, as a high school student, had been elected president of the honor council.
In testimony before a riveted courtroom on Wednesday, the younger Mr. Harris said he had been wary of Mr. Dowless after analyzing returns in the 2016 election. In an email the day after Mr. Harris and Mr. Dowless met, John Harris explained the stakes.
“The key thing that I am fairly certain they do that is illegal is that they collected the completed absentee ballots and mail them all at once,” John Harris wrote in an email that he shared with investigators — a document his father’s campaign had not done weeks ago, when it said it had complied with a subpoena’s demands.
Even though John Harris explicitly noted that he did not believe his father had known of any specific misconduct last year, the email and the testimony crippled the Harris campaign’s assertion that there had been no grounds to be suspicious of Mr. Dowless or his methods.
“I love my dad, and I love my mom,” John Harris said in his closing remarks, as his father wept. “I certainly have no vendetta against them, no family scores to settle. I think they made mistakes in this process, and they certainly did things differently than I would have done them.”
Out of public view, Mark Harris’s perils were mounting. Just before his son climbed the witness stand, the campaign’s counsel acknowledged that they had more undisclosed documents to share with investigators. That revelation, which a lawyer for Mr. Harris attributed to differing interpretations over a subpoena’s scope, stunned state officials.
Board members, who had seemed mostly impassive through days of testimony, were outraged.
Then, with Mr. Harris testifying just before lunch on Thursday, Josh Lawson, a lawyer for the state board, posed a series of questions that suddenly sped up what had been a slow-motion political unraveling: Before Wednesday afternoon, had Mr. Harris told anyone that the email his son disclosed was not part of the evidence in the case?
Mr. Harris did not recall any such conversations. His lawyer soon asked for a recess.
When the hearing resumed, Mr. Harris asked to read a statement. On Tuesday night, he acknowledged, he had spoken to his other son “about the fact that I did not think John’s emails would be part of this hearing.”
Consumers affected by Equifax’s huge data breach in 2017 may need to re-establish protections on their credit report if they “locked” their files as part of the company’s free credit-monitoring offer.
People who accepted Equifax’s offer after the breach have been notified that the free service, TrustedID Premier, will expire at the end of January.
If subscribers locked their Equifax credit files using the service to prevent the opening of fraudulent accounts, the locks will automatically lift when TrustedID expires, according to Equifax. The locks will also end if, before Jan. 31, the consumer enrolls in a similar service that breach victims are being offered as an alternative.
The upshot? Consumers who want to keep the lock on their Equifax credit files have to use a different product — like the company’s free “lock & alert” service, the company suggests.
Perplexed? You’re not alone. Several people contacted The New York Times about the change. Notices emailed to Equifax subscribers do explain the lock issue, if readers click through to a question-and-answer page. But some subscribers and consumer advocates worry that people may not absorb the details and remain unaware that they have to relock their Equifax credit report. Credit locks are marketed by credit bureaus as a convenient way to prevent lenders and others from obtaining your credit report without your knowledge.
“There’s an opportunity for consumers to be confused,” said Paul Stephens, director of policy and advocacy with Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group. If consumers don’t relock their files — and if they haven’t used another option, known as a security freeze — “they’re still going to be very vulnerable,” he said.
Christina Tetreault, a staff attorney at Consumers Union who specializes in financial services, said the situation illustrated why the best way to guard against account fraud is to place a security freeze — not a lock — on your files at all three credit bureaus.
Federal law now requires credit bureaus to offer security freezes free of charge, and they’re much simpler to set up than in the past, Ms. Tetreault said. A freeze accomplishes the same thing as a lock, she said, but with a freeze, your rights are defined by law. With credit locks, she said, the bureaus set the rules.
“With a freeze,” she said, “the power belongs to the consumer.”
Equifax initially told at least some subscribers that it would extend free credit monitoring through TrustedID Premier, according to emails shared with The Times. But later, it switched to an offer of a second year through the credit bureau Experian, a competitor. Some subscribers may already have switched, but the deadline to enroll for the free extra year is Jan. 31, according to a notice Equifax sent to subscribers. (Experian normally charges a monthly fee for its service, called IDnotify.)
An Equifax spokeswoman, Nancy Bistritz-Balkan, said Equifax would continue to offer credit monitoring tools to consumers, but had a “strategic relationship” with Experian to provide a year of free credit monitoring to breach victims through IDnotify.
It’s unclear how many people may be affected by the lock issue. Ms. Bistritz-Balkan declined to say how many consumers had enrolled in free credit monitoring after the breach, which compromised the personal information, including Social Security numbers, birth dates and other sensitive details, of more than 145 million people.
Edward Steen, a retired patent lawyer in New York, said he had subscribed to the free credit monitoring after the Equifax breach, and had started to fill out an online form to get the extra free year from Experian. But since he and his wife had each placed security freezes on their credit files, he decided he didn’t need it. “What’s the point?” he asked.
Credit monitoring services notify subscribers of activity in their credit files, which are maintained by the three big credit bureaus (the third is TransUnion), as a way to flag possible fraud or identity theft. The services may also offer a package of other related features.
Mr. Stephens said he was puzzled by Equifax’s move to offer consumers credit monitoring from a competitor. Still, he said he saw no harm in using free credit monitoring — as long as it covered all three bureaus and consumers realized that it was a “reactive” service that notified them of activity in their credit file after it occurred, rather than preventing it.
Here are some questions and answers about credit protection:
What if I subscribed to TrustedID Premier but have a security freeze on my Equifax credit file, rather than a lock?
The expiration of credit monitoring from TrustedID Premier won’t affect credit freezes — just locks. “If your Equifax credit report is frozen and not locked,” Equifax told subscribers, “the security freeze will stay in place.”
How do I establish a credit freeze?
To freeze your credit files, visit the website of each credit bureau (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) and follow the instructions to register and apply the freeze. You’ll also get instructions on how to thaw the freeze if you want to apply for a loan or a credit card; details vary by bureau.
What other steps can I take to protect myself from identity fraud?
A good practice is to check your credit file periodically for any suspicious activity. You are entitled to a free copy each year from the three credit bureaus at www.annualcreditreport.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the departures of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel were expected.
The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by President Trump to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.
Many immigration policy changes require congressional approval, however.
Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.
In court: A California judge on Monday blocked the president’s efforts to force asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are adjudicated by the immigration courts.
Prime Minister Theresa May’s government continued meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to discuss a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled for Friday.
Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.
What’s next: The Conservative government and Labour resume talks today, and European leaders are expected to meet and consider Mrs. May’s request for another Brexit extension on Wednesday. 
Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, faces a decision after years of ambiguity regarding his stance on Brexit. Having accepted Mrs. May’s offer to negotiate, he will most likely face uncomfortable choices if she softens her stance and tries to tempt him with a credible compromise. 
Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the ouster of an autocratic ruler. In Algeria, millions of protesters forced out their own octogenarian leader last week. And in Libya, an aging general is battling to establish himself as a new strongman.
The hopes inspired in 2011 by the Arab Spring uprising, or the waves of anti-government protests in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, are reverberating across the region, shaking autocratic governments and posing questions about the future.
Protesters are seeking an end to closed and corrupt economies and authoritarian governments that are unresponsive to the public. “History repeats itself,” said one leader of the Egyptian uprising of 2011.
What’s next: President Trump is expected to host President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt at the White House today. Some scholars say the upheaval is a warning of the risks of embracing such autocratic allies too closely.
History lesson: Even the meaning of the Arab Spring remains contested. For authoritarian governments, it’s that popular revolutions lead to bedlam. For young people in Algeria and Sudan, it’s that nonviolent protests can oust even the most deeply entrenched dictator.
The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.
Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.
Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.
The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.
Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government.
Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually cover 3,000 miles.
But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.
Boeing: The company’s troubled 737 Max was built on a 1960s design, and it lacked notable safety features that have been offered for years on other planes. Our reporters look at the history behind the patchwork plane grounded after two crashes in five months.
Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.
Italy: Matteo Salvini, the most powerful figure in Italy’s government, announced the formation of a new European alliance of populist and far-right parties ahead of critical European Parliament elections in May. 
France: Citizens want lower taxes and no reduction in public services, according to a three-month national consultation in which some 1.5 million French citizens let the government know what they wanted. It was President Emmanuel Macron’s strategy for sucking the wind out of the Yellow Vest protest movement. 
Snapshot: Poland’s governing party has made gay people its top enemy. Maciej Gosniowski, above left, one of Poland’s few drag performers, said that while the vitriol directed at gays was alarming, he noticed an outpouring of support at the same time. “The two wings of society seem to be spreading apart,” he said.
What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”
Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.
Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.
Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.
Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.
We also have guidance on how to securely mount your flat-screen TV.
Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.
Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.
She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.
Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.
Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.
The chairman of the North Carolina Republican Party and one of the state’s leading political donors together sought to use campaign contributions to bribe the state’s insurance commissioner, federal prosecutors said in an indictment that was unsealed on Tuesday.
The 23-page indictment — detailed with accounts of clandestine airport meetings and promises of millions of dollars in illicit donations — intensified the political tumult in a state already roiled by partisan warfare and a fraud-tainted congressional election. And it also showed how, at least in the judgment of prosecutors, a leading political operative and one of his most important benefactors tried to shape government oversight in one of the nation’s largest states.
“These men crossed the line from fund-raising to felonies when they devised a plan to use their connections to a political party to attempt to influence the operations and policies of the North Carolina Department of Insurance,” said John A. Strong, the special agent in charge of the F.B.I. office in Charlotte, N.C.
The party chairman, Robin Hayes, faces the gravest set of charges of the four men who were indicted. Mr. Hayes was accused of bribery and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, along with several counts of making false statements. Three other people, including Greg E. Lindberg, the chairman of an investment firm in Durham and a prolific Republican contributor, were also charged.
Kearns Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Hayes, said the 73-year-old Republican “steadfastly denies the allegations made against him in this case.” In a separate statement, Anne Tompkins, a lawyer for Mr. Lindberg, said that Mr. Lindberg was “innocent of the charges in the indictment and we look forward to demonstrating this when we get our day in court.”
It was not clear whether the other men who were charged had lawyers.
A federal magistrate in Charlotte unsealed the case on Tuesday after the men were arrested — a public milestone in an investigation that began early last year with a tip from Mike Causey, the insurance commissioner.
According to the indictment, Mr. Lindberg, who has also given to Democrats, wanted Mr. Causey to oust a powerful regulator “in exchange for millions of dollars in campaign contributions.” The targeted state official was in charge of overseeing North Carolina’s regulation of a company that Mr. Lindberg owned, and Mr. Lindberg complained to Mr. Causey in February 2018 that the official was “deliberately and intentionally and maliciously hurting my reputation with other regulators.”
Mr. Lindberg said the official had been “lying” to Mr. Causey.
The next month, federal officials said, Mr. Lindberg and Mr. Causey met alone at the Statesville Regional Airport.
“What’s in it for me?” Mr. Causey asked Mr. Lindberg, according to the indictment.
Mr. Lindberg replied that he would support the commissioner’s campaign for re-election.
Mr. Hayes, one of the most influential political figures in the state, emerged as someone who could help carry out the plan. Federal officials said that Mr. Hayes knew at least some of the plot in May 2018 and, less than three months later, tried to disguise part of the bribe by arranging to transfer to the Causey campaign $250,000 that Mr. Lindberg had given to the state party.
Before the transfer, one of Mr. Lindberg’s consultants, John D. Gray, called Mr. Hayes to say the men had “come to the conclusion that it would be better for all of us” if the money for the Causey campaign was funneled through the Republican Party.
“O.K., well, if that’s what you want to do, we can do it,” Mr. Hayes replied, according to the indictment. “It looks a little odd to have that much at one time. You know, we were talking about putting it over, you know, so much a month so it didn’t jump out, but that’s what you want to do, we can do it.”
Within weeks, prosecutors said, Mr. Hayes lied to F.B.I. agents about his efforts.
In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Causey said his department “continues to cooperate with the federal authorities on this investigation.” He otherwise declined to comment.
The indictment landed at a perilous moment for the Republican Party in North Carolina. Although Donald J. Trump carried the state in 2016, Democrats seized the governor’s office that year, and last year’s elections eroded the Republican supermajority in the General Assembly.
The party also suffered a stinging embarrassment in February, when the State Board of Elections ordered a new vote in the Ninth Congressional District after the Republican nominee’s campaign financed an illicit voter-turnout operation during the general election. Although no major Republican Party figures have been charged with wrongdoing, the man who coordinated the improper effort was indicted in connection with wrongdoing in earlier elections, and state and federal officials are conducting parallel inquiries into the general election.
[Read: A new election was ordered in North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District.]
On Monday, Mr. Hayes announced that he would not seek another term as state party chairman. In a statement announcing the decision, the party cited “recent, although temporary, issues with his mobility.”
After Mr. Hayes’s indictment was announced on Tuesday, a lawyer for the state party, Josh Howard, said the party had become “aware of several indictments surrounding the conduct of a major donor to both major political parties and two of his associates.”
Mr. Howard, who spoke of the party’s cooperation during the federal inquiry, did not mention that its leader had also been charged.
TULA, Mexico — President Andrés Manuel López Obrador envisions a future in which Mexico produces more oil, gasoline and electricity. But his strategy to get there relies on reaching back into his country’s past.
Breaking with a five-year-old energy overhaul that opened Mexico’s closely held oil industry to the private sector, Mr. López Obrador wants to spend billions of dollars to strengthen the dominance of Mexico’s state-owned energy companies.
“We are going to rescue this industry that is so important for the country’s development,” Mr. López Obrador told workers recently at a rusting oil refinery in Tula, about 45 miles north of Mexico City, as he accused previous governments of “plundering” the industry.
Mr. López Obrador, a proud leftist, has said he intends to restore the glory days of the national oil company, Petróleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, when it helped make Mexico self-sufficient in energy and provided hundreds of thousands of well-paying jobs. Weeks after he took office in December, the president gave the company a new slogan — “For the rescue of sovereignty” — that tapped into a deep vein of nationalism that binds the oil industry to Mexico’s very identity.
Many Mexicans share the president’s reverence for Pemex. The former monopoly is still one of the country’s largest employers, funds 20 percent of the national budget and dominates the economy of states on the Gulf of Mexico coast.
But the company and Mexico are both in a far different time from when the 65-year-old president came of age in Tabasco, a state in Mexico’s oil country. National oil production has declined to about half of its 2004 peak. Mexico was the world’s 11th-largest petroleum producer last year, down from fourth biggest in 2002. And analysts say that the company is inefficient and lacks in technical sophistication.
To halt the decline, Mr. López Obrador’s predecessor, Enrique Peña Nieto, broke Mexicans’ historical resistance to private investment in a bid to attract money and technology. Although Pemex kept most of the country’s reserves, the government began to auction rights to explore and produce oil to investor-owned businesses. Mexico also allowed foreign investors to expand their presence in the power industry.
Mr. López Obrador has said he will not change the energy laws his predecessor pushed through, but in practice he is beginning to dismantle those policies.
The government has shut the door on most new foreign investment in energy — whether it involves oil exploration or private wind farms. At the same time, Mr. López Obrador has begun to name loyalists to replace independent energy regulators and Pemex board members.
“This is nothing new,” he said to workers at the annual event last month celebrating Mexico’s 1938 expropriation of the assets of foreign oil companies. “It was like this for many years. We were self-sufficient in oil production, self-sufficient in gasoline.”
Critics warn that Mr. López Obrador is sinking public money into reviving a fossil-fuel industry that is fast being overtaken by new, cleaner technology.
“There is an understanding of the energy sector that seems out of date and driven by ideology,” said Lourdes Melgar, an energy under secretary in the previous government. “You can’t solve the challenges of the 21st century with a vision from the 1930s.”
Ms. Melgar said that the president was right to seek energy sovereignty but that he was defining it too narrowly. Had he kept the industry open to private investment, Mexico would have gained technical know-how and financing to develop a variety of energy resources, including wind and solar power, she said.
One of the biggest problems is that neither Pemex nor the state-owned power company, the Federal Electricity Commission, has the money to carry out Mr. López Obrador’s vision. Nor do they have the expertise in technology like deepwater drilling or renewable energy.
The situation at Pemex is especially dire.
Carrying $107 billion in debt, Pemex is the world’s most indebted oil company. Its January oil production was its lowest in 40 years, while its creaking refineries are running at about a third of their capacity. Corruption and mismanagement have inflated operating costs. And Mexico levies hefty taxes on the company’s profits.
“There is a romantic notion of what the Mexican oil industry was,” said Pablo Medina, a vice president at Welligence Energy Analytics in Houston. “We have to acknowledge reality — and that is production will not stop declining until we invest additional amounts.”
Most analysts estimate that the company needs to invest at least $20 billion. Although the government has sharply increased Pemex’s budget for oil production, cut taxes and cracked down on fuel theft, the company’s spending will fall far short of that target.
Mr. López Obrador has said Pemex will spend $8 billion to build a new refinery in Tabasco in just three years. Analysts say the speed and low cost are not credible, especially considering Pemex’s spotty record.
The project is the centerpiece of Mr. Lopez Obrador’s plan to end Mexico’s growing reliance on gasoline imports from the United States, which account for about two-thirds of national consumption. Critics said he was putting billions into a corrupt and inefficient division of Pemex, rather than concentrating investment on increasing crude oil production and buying cheaper and cleaner gasoline from American refineries.
The president “truly believes that if he fights corruption and lets good people run Pemex, it will be fine,” said Miriam Grunstein, an energy lawyer and a nonresident scholar at Rice University’s Baker Institute. “It’s magical thinking because it’s very primitive.”
At the electricity commission, Mr. López Obrador has handed control to Manuel Bartlett, an 83-year-old politician who is a staunch opponent of private energy investment.
Mr. Bartlett has also declared solar and wind power to be unreliable and expensive even as prices for renewable technology have fallen sharply. In January, the government canceled an auction for the right to generate wind and solar energy even though previous auctions produced some of the world’s cheapest electricity prices.
Greenpeace, the environmental group, said that without more investment in renewables, Mexico would not meet the emissions reduction targets that the country agreed to under the Paris climate accord or comply with its own clean energy laws.
“It’s a shortsighted perspective on the potential of the energy sector,” said Dwight Dyer, a former Energy Ministry official. “López Obrador wants state energy champions even though these energy champions were very inefficient.”
Mr. López Obrador has not entirely ruled out a role for private investment. He has challenged private oil companies that entered Mexico in recent years to hurry up and start pumping oil in competition with Pemex.
“No ideology, no politics, a practical trial, results — let’s see who does it better,” he said.
Private companies met with the president in January to explain their progress and make the case for new oil auctions, said Alberto de la Fuente, president of the Mexican trade association for energy companies.
“I understand what they’re doing,” Mr. de la Fuente said. “I just hope, as an industry, we’re able to move forward quicker.”
But he warned that if the delay in new auctions dragged on, some investors might lose interest in the country.
The president and his aides have said he is simply undoing the most unpopular parts of the previous government’s energy policies.
Mr. Peña Nieto said his reforms would increase oil production, create jobs and reduce energy prices. But oil production has continued to fall and the industry has shed jobs as global oil prices plunged in the last two years. Yet consumers are paying more because the government also reduced subsidies.
The president is “listening to people’s concerns,” said Abel Hibert, an energy adviser to Mr. López Obrador.
Mr. Hibert said the president would consider restarting auctions if private oil companies met their production goals. “The president understands the need for the private sector,” he said.
But such reassurances have done little to comfort investors and analysts who fear that Mr. López Obrador is reasserting too much government control over the energy industry and shutting out foreign investment.
Ratings agencies have warned that they might downgrade Mexican debt, in part because of the amount of government spending to prop up Pemex and the electricity company.
John Padilla, the managing director of IPD Latin America, an energy consulting firm, said Mr. López Obrador did not appear to understand how his energy policies were hurting the economy.
Mexico “is incredibly interdependent on the global marketplace, from trade to finance,” Mr. Padilla said. “That’s the piece where we’re seeing the biggest disconnect.”
(Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court temporarily halted the execution in Alabama on Thursday of a man convicted of killing a minister and wounding his wife with a sword and dagger while robbing their home three days before Christmas 1991.
A three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a delay of 60 days that a district judge in Mobile, Alabama, had granted in the case of Christopher Price, 46, earlier on Thursday.
On Thursday night, the Alabama Attorney General's Office filed an emergency motion with the U.S. Supreme Court, asking it to overturn the stay of execution.
Price was convicted and sentenced to death in 1993 in the killing of William Lynn, a minister, in his home in Bazemore, Alabama, on Dec. 22, 1991.
Price's attorneys argued that lethal injections had been botched in the past, causing a painful death and that execution by nitrogen hypoxia was a better alternative.
The appeals court, in a three-page ruling, cited questions of jurisdiction between itself and the district judge that have emerged in legal arguments filed by lawyers in the case.
"In light of the jurisdictional questions raised by the parties' motions, we stay Price's execution until further notice of this court," the court ruled.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
Lynn was assembling Christmas presents for his grandchildren after he and his wife, Bessie, returned home from church when two men shut off electricity in the home and attacked the couple with a sword and dagger, according to court documents. 
Lynn died of his injuries, while his wife survived wounds to her head, hands and chest. 
Price was captured seven days later and admitted that he took part in the robbery, but said he did not hurt the couple, according to court documents. 
Kelvin Coleman, who was accused of being Price's accomplice, pleaded guilty to murder and robbery and is serving a life sentence without parole, authorities said. 
Price's attorneys have argued the three-drug cocktail to be used in the execution is inhumane and he should be executed by nitrogen hypoxia, a "virtually painless" method, a court brief showed. 
On Thursday, Chief U.S. District Judge Kristi DuBose granted Price's attorneys the 60-day stay and gave the state until May 10 to respond to their arguments that the three-drug protocol risked causing Price significant pain and that nitrogen hypnoxia would reduce that risk.
Earlier this month, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that the Constitution did not guarantee a prisoner sentenced to capital punishment "a painless death," paving the way for the execution of convicted murderer Russell Bucklew, who sought to die by lethal gas rather than lethal injection because of a rare medical condition.
Six executions in the United States scheduled during the first three months of 2019 have been stayed or rescheduled. 
 (Reporting by Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee and Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Bill Tarrant and Peter Cooney)
In early 2014, Donald J. Trump approached his personal bankers at Deutsche Bank to sound them out about potentially lending him money to buy the Buffalo Bills. He provided the bankers with a collection of bare-bones personal financial statements.
The documents were provided so that Deutsche Bank — the only major bank that had consistently been willing to do business with Mr. Trump over the previous two decades — could make a preliminary decision about whether to make the loan.
Mr. Trump has said he offered to pay $1 billion for the Bills, and the team was sold to a rival bidder for a little more than that, meaning that Deutsche Bank was never formally called on to make the loan. Now the financial documents Mr. Trump provided to the bank are under scrutiny by members of Congress.
Michael Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, told a congressional committee on Wednesday that the documents listed Mr. Trump’s assets at values that had been “inflated” with Mr. Trump’s knowledge.
Deutsche Bank officials viewed some of the values Mr. Trump assigned to specific assets as based on wildly optimistic assumptions, according to a person familiar with the bank’s deliberations. As they assessed Mr. Trump’s finances, the officials would generally reduce his estimates of his assets’ values by up to 70 percent, the person said.
[Michael Cohen accused Mr. Trump of an expansive pattern of lies and criminal dealings.]
Deutsche Bank declined to comment. The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization, which did not respond to requests for comment.
As part of his testimony on Wednesday, Mr. Cohen provided financial documents that described Mr. Trump’s personal assets and liabilities in 2011, 2012 and 2013. The documents covering 2011 and 2012 were previously presented to Deutsche Bank; it was not clear whether the 2013 documents were as well.
In the documents, Mr. Trump reported a net worth of up to about $8.7 billion, with much of it coming from the value of his brand and his portfolio of residential properties, office buildings and golf resorts in the United States and overseas.
Mr. Cohen told members of the House Oversight Committee that he was there when the documents were presented to Deutsche Bank. “I believe these numbers are inflated,” he told the committee. He did not elaborate on which assets he was referring to or to what degree their values were exaggerated.
But the documents provide a glimpse of values Mr. Trump assigned to some of his properties that are out of line with other available estimates.
[The testimony could create more legal issues for the president.]
On his 2012 balance sheet, Mr. Trump described an estate he owns in Westchester County, N.Y., as being worth $291 million. He bought the property, Seven Springs, in 1996 for $7.5 million. In 2018, Mr. Trump said in a federal ethics filing that the property was worth no more than $50 million.
Also in 2012 — just as the economy was beginning to recover from the financial crisis — Mr. Trump valued his skyscraper at 40 Wall Street in Lower Manhattan at $527 million. An article in The Wall Street Journal that year reported that property had a value of about $400 million, based on sales of comparable properties. It would be three more years until the building achieved Mr. Trump’s valuation, according to Trepp, which tracks commercial real estate lending.
The 2012 Journal article also estimated that Mr. Trump’s golf resorts and related real estate in the United States and Scotland were worth nearly $1.6 billion. The Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index as of this week valued those properties at $650 million.
In the 2013 financial statement, Mr. Trump said that $4 billion of his nearly $9 billion net worth was attributable to his “brand value.” He did not report such a hard-to-measure asset in 2011 and 2012.
The financial statements for 2011 and 2012 carry the heading “compilation reports,” which in accounting terms means that the accountants that prepared them merely compiled information from their client without auditing the underlying figures. The 2013 statement does not appear to have been prepared by an accountant, and includes language that is not part of generally accepted accounting principles.
[Mr. Cohen characterized the president as a con man, a cheat and a racist.]
Determining the value of huge pieces of real estate is an exercise in subjectivity. In Mr. Trump’s case, according to bankers who have worked with him, he tended to make assumptions that were more aggressive than others in the real estate business would. For example, they said, he often made unrealistic forecasts about how much revenue he expected a property to generate, a practice that would result in a greatly inflated value for that asset.
Providing false information in order to get a bank loan can constitute bank fraud or conspiracy to commit bank fraud, according to former prosecutors.
Michael Bachner, a lawyer who often represents defendants in financial crime cases, said that prosecutors generally focused on whether information provided to a bank was “materially false” and exaggerated a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. He added that it was uncommon for prosecutors to charge someone with bank fraud in the absence of a loan being made.
Since the late 1990s, Deutsche Bank has been the only major Wall Street bank willing to do business with Mr. Trump, whose companies have defaulted on loans and filed for bankruptcy on multiple occasions. Deutsche Bank, hungry for growth in the lucrative United States market, was willing to look the other way even after Mr. Trump defaulted on one of its loans in 2008 and then sued the bank over accusations that it had helped cause the financial crisis.
After that litigation, the bank’s relationship with Mr. Trump shifted from its vast investment banking and trading division to its small United States private bank, which serves ultra-wealthy people. In 2012, the private bank lent Mr. Trump well over $100 million to pay for the Doral golf resort near Miami.
Two years later, Mr. Trump’s name would surface in bidding for the Bills. The team was put up for sale after its owner died, and Mr. Trump approached Deutsche Bank’s private banking unit about a loan to help him buy it, if he were the winning bidder.
“I bid a billion dollars, all cash on the table,” Mr. Trump told Sports Illustrated in 2015. The team went to a rival bidder, Terry Pegula.
While Deutsche Bank never lent Mr. Trump money for the Bills bid, the bank continued to extend him credit for other purposes.
Later that year, Mr. Trump sought another loan from Deutsche Bank to finance his transformation of the Old Post Office Building in Washington into a luxury hotel. The bank lent him $170 million.
Lamia Al-Gailani Werr, who as one of the Iraq’s first female archaeologists helped her country’s national museum recover from the looting of its antiquities at the outset of the Iraq war, died on Jan. 18 in Amman, Jordan. She was 80.
Her daughter Noorah Al-Gailani said the cause was a stroke. Dr. Gailani had been in Amman attending a workshop that trains curators to help protect and promote the cultural heritages of Iraq and Syria.
Dr. Gailani built her reputation as a widely respected scholar, curator and writer over nearly a half-century, living mostly in London but returning regularly to Iraq to do research. Her trip back to Baghdad in the spring of 2003 was for a purpose more immediately critical than research. United States-led forces had invaded Iraq that March in a futile search for weapons of mass destruction, and for days looters ransacked the Iraq Museum in the capital city.
Walking into the building, she encountered staff members in the lobby. “They were in such a state of shock that I remember not a single one of them was able to finish a sentence,” she recalled in an interview with the BBC in 2016. “It was eerie and terrible to see the museum empty like that.”
Dr. Gailani was an expert on Mesopotamian stone cylinder seals, which millenniums ago were used to make imprints in clay as forms of identification. Most of the museum’s collection of 7,000 of them were stolen from the museum’s basement.
“The seals were in a corner, in small boxes put on top of a cabinet,” Dr. Gailani told the BBC. “How did the looters find it unless they knew where they were? You can blame anybody. They could be outsiders, but they’ve heard about them — or it could be people within the museum.”
Working through the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office, a creation of the United States State Department, Dr. Gailani helped assess the damage and catalog the objects that remained, found storage facilities for them and acted as an intermediary between the museum staff and occupying forces.
One of the most precious pieces recovered after the looting was the Bassetki, a 4,300-year-old copper sculpture of a seated nude human figure on a round pedestal. It had been hidden in a cesspool outside of Baghdad. When the soldiers who found it brought it to the museum door, Dr. Gailani met them and, she said, didn’t care at all about the odor.
“It is an absolutely super piece,” she said in an interview in 2004 with Science magazine. “It has long been my favorite.”
Thousands of artifacts were eventually recovered, and the museum reopened in 2015.
Lamia Al-Gailani was born on March 8, 1938, in Baghdad, where she grew up with four siblings. Her father, Ahmad Jamal al-Din Al-Gailanilani, was a landowner, and her mother, Madiha Asif Mahmud Arif-Agha, was a homemaker.
Iraqi history ran deep in her family. Her father descended from Abdul-Qadir al-Gailani, a 12th-century Muslim theologian and mystic, and her lineage included the first prime minister of modern Iraq.
“Nobody in her family before her was in archaeology, but because her family is one of the oldest in Iraq, her sense of history was very keen,” Zainab Bahrani, a friend and professor of ancient Near Eastern and archaeology at Columbia University, said in a telephone interview.
Her archaeological education began with one year at Baghdad University before she moved to England, where she graduated from the University of Cambridge with a bachelor’s degree in archaeology and architecture. She earned a master’s at the University of Edinburgh and her Ph.D at University College London, where the subject of her thesis was cylinder seals.
Dr. Gailani joined the National Museum of Iraq in 1961 as a curator. One of her first tasks was to make clay impressions of the cylinder seals. But her ambition to join an archaeological dig in Iraq — fertile territory for excavations — was circumscribed by conservative Iraqi attitudes toward women. Still, she convinced the museum authorities that she was capable of the work, although in agreeing to take her on they limited her to excavating in the Baghdad area.
At Tell al-Dhibai, on the outskirts of the city, Dr. Gailani was part of a group that discovered a Babylonian town, complete with houses, a temple and an administrative building.
“The finds from the site, while not visually spectacular, were incredible important,” she wrote in an essay in the book “The Looting of the Iraq Museum, Baghdad” (2005), edited by Milbry Polk and Angela M. H. Schuster. Unearthed from the site were many cuneiform tablets, including one that was identified as a proof of the Pythagorean theorem, arrived at 2,000 years before Pythagoras lived.
Dr. Gailani was in the vanguard of female Iraqi archaeologists, joined soon by Selma al-Radi, Rajiha al-Ni’ami and Nawala al-Mutwali, a cuneiform expert who became director of the Iraq Museum. By 2003, many of the museum’s staff archaeologists were women.
In her thesis, which was published in 1988 in the journal Bibliotheca Mesopotamia, Dr. Gailani described the elaborate impressions that the seals, carved with scenes in intaglio, made on clay tablets.
In one instance she wrote about Shamash, the Mesopotamian sun god, whose primary symbols on the tablets “are the saw or serrated knife and the human-faced bull.”
“He is most often shown standing with his foot on a stylized mountain or a reclining bull,” Dr. Gailani wrote. “Facing the god is a worshiper wearing a round cap with upturned brim and a long garment open in front, revealing one bare leg.”
McGuire Gibson, a professor of Mesopotamian archaeology at the University of Chicago, said in an email that Dr. Gailani’s thesis showed images of the seals that Iraqi teams had found in excavations.
“The information would, otherwise, probably have remained virtually unknown without her work,” he wrote.
In addition to her daughter Noorah, the curator of Islamic civilizations at Glasgow Museums, Dr. Gailani is survived by two other daughters, Azza Al-Gailani and Hesn Werr. Her first marriage, to Abd al-Rahman Al-Gailani, a second cousin and Islamic architecture historian, ended in divorce. Her second husband, George Werr, a Jordanian businessman, died in 2003.
The rampant thefts of the seals and other Iraqi Museum artifacts preceded the cultural catastrophe that befell the country in recent years when members of the radical Islamist group Isis destroyed many ancient art treasures and shrines in Syria and Iraq, like the supposed tomb of the biblical prophet Jonah in Nineveh, outside the Iraqi city of Mosul.
“Those were devastating and made us weep,” Dr. Bahrani, who had worked with Dr. Gailani, said. “She said the reason they went after the shrine was because it was sacred to all religious groups and by attacking it, they were attacking the riches and diversity of the culture.”
She added: “She was sad but she never gave up. She wanted to bear witness and wanted people to know.”
(Reuters) - Apple Inc was accused in a new lawsuit of securities fraud for concealing a slump in demand for iPhones, particularly in China, leading to a $74 billion (£57 billion) one-day slide in its market value once the truth became known.
The complaint filed on Tuesday seeks damages for investors who bought Apple stock in the two months before Chief Executive Tim Cook on Jan. 2 unexpectedly reduced Apple's quarterly revenue forecast as much as $9 billion, in part because of the intensifying U.S. trade war with China.
It was the first time since the iPhone's 2007 launch that Apple had cut its revenue forecast.
Apple's share price fell 10 percent the next day, leaving the Cupertino, California-based company's market value roughly 40 percent below its $1.1 trillion peak three months earlier.
Cook and Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri were also named as defendants in the proposed class action. Apple did not immediately respond on Wednesday to requests for comment.
The lawsuit was filed in the federal court in Oakland, California by the City of Roseville Employees' Retirement System, a Michigan pension plan.
It is represented by Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd, a securities class-action specialist.
The complaint said iPhone demand was falling because of U.S.-China trade tensions and customers' growing preference to replace batteries in older iPhones, prompting Apple to slash orders from suppliers for new iPhones and cut prices to reduce inventory.
But none of this was disclosed when it should have been, the complaint said, in part because of Apple's Nov. 1, 2018 decision to stop disclosing unit sales for iPhones.
Asked during a conference call that day about Apple's performance in emerging markets, Cook cited downward pressures on sales in Brazil and India, but said "I would not put China in that category," the complaint said.
The lawsuit was filed on the same day Apple settled all its litigation with Qualcomm Inc. Their disputes centred mainly on Qualcomm patents for mobile chips, and how much Apple should pay to use the technology.
The case is City of Roseville Employees' Retirement System v Apple Inc et al, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 19-02033.
 (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Susan Thomas)
WASHINGTON — Purse snatching and pickpocketing can amount to violent felonies for purposes of a federal law, the Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday in a 5-to-4 decision featuring unusual alliances.
The case concerned the Armed Career Criminal Act, a federal law that is a kind of three-strikes statute. It requires mandatory 15-year sentences for people convicted of possessing firearms if they have earlier been found guilty of three violent felonies or serious drug charges.
Figuring out what qualifies as one of those earlier offenses is not always easy. Tuesday’s decision considered a part of the law that defined violent felonies to include offenses involving the use or threat of physical force. The question in the case was whether minimal force, as in a purse snatching, is enough.
In analyzing whether given crimes qualify as violent felonies under the federal law, the Supreme Court does not look to what the defendant actually did. Rather, it considers whether the crime — in this case, robbery under Florida law — covers conduct that does not qualify as a violent felony.
The case involved Denard Stokeling, who pleaded guilty to possessing a gun after burglarizing the Tongue & Cheek restaurant in Miami Beach, where he worked. After he was identified based on surveillance video and witness statements, police found a gun in his backpack. He was prosecuted on federal gun charges.
Mr. Stokeling had three earlier convictions, and prosecutors invoked the sentencing law to argue he should serve a much longer prison term than the one the gun charge would ordinarily have warranted.
Mr. Stokeling objected, saying that one of his convictions, for robbery in Florida state court arising from a snatched necklace, did not amount to a violent felony. That meant, he said, that he should face only a maximum sentence of 10 years rather than a minimum sentence of 15 years.
Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the majority, said Mr. Stokeling’s robbery conviction counted as a violent felony for purposes of the federal law. The Florida law required proof the victim resisted, he wrote, and that was enough.
“The force necessary to overcome a victim’s physical resistance is inherently ‘violent,’” Justice Thomas wrote.
“This is true because robbery that must overpower a victim’s will — even a feeble or weak-willed victim — necessarily involves a physical confrontation and struggle,” Justice Thomas wrote. “The altercation need not cause pain or injury or even be prolonged; it is the physical contest between the criminal and the victim that is itself ‘capable of causing physical pain or injury.’ ”
The quoted phrase came from a 2010 decision, Johnson v. United States, that concluded that convictions under Florida’s battery statute did not qualify as violent felonies for purposes of the federal sentencing law.
Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who generally votes with the court’s liberal wing in closely divided cases, joined the majority opinion on Tuesday, as did Justices Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh.
Justice Sonia Sotomayor dissented, saying the majority opinion could not be reconciled with the 2010 decision or the reality of how little force is required to be convicted of robbery under the Florida law.
“A pickpocket who attempts to pull free after the victim catches his arm” qualifies, she wrote. “A thief who grabs a bag from a victim’s shoulder also commits Florida robbery, so long as the victim instinctively holds on to the bag’s strap for a moment.”
Justice Sotomayor added that locking up such offenders for long periods does not advance public safety. “Under Florida law, ‘robbers’ can be glorified pickpockets, shoplifters and purse snatchers,” she wrote.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joined the dissent in the case, Stokeling v. United States, No. 17-5554, as did Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan.
Had the court ruled for Mr. Stokeling, Justice Thomas wrote, convictions under at least 31 state robbery laws would have become ineligible to serve as qualifying offenses under the federal sentencing law.
Justice Sotomayor questioned the accuracy of that statement and said earlier decisions from the court had already substantially narrowed the scope of the sentencing law. “The majority, fearful for the camel, errs in blaming the most recent straw,” she wrote.
LONDON — Europe’s gathering Jewish question came into sharp focus this month when a British M.P. declared that she had come to the “sickening conclusion” that one of the country’s two main political parties, Labour, is now “institutionally anti-Semitic.”
Imagine, to gauge the import of this statement, Bernie Sanders suggesting the same thing of the Democrats.
Jew hatred has re-entered the European mainstream through a toxic amalgam of spillover from vilification of Israel, the return of the Jewish plutocrat as hated symbol of the 1 percent, and the resurgence of the Jewish “cosmopolitan” as the target of ascendant nationalists convinced a cabal of Jews runs the world.
The British politician was Luciana Berger, who is Jewish and has been M.P. for Liverpool and Wavertree since 2010. She has watched, with dismay, as Jeremy Corbyn has allowed a demonological view of Israel to foster Jew hatred in the Labour Party since taking over its leadership in 2015.
So, I asked in an interview, is Corbyn an anti-Semite? “Well,” she said, “he’s certainly been responsible for sharing platforms with anti-Semites and saying things that are highly offensive and anti-Semitic.”
Corbyn, Berger suggested, has contrived to make British Jews different in some way, a process she called “othering.” She’s had to endure “pictures of Stars of David superimposed on my forehead, and my face imposed on a rat, or many rats. There are pornographic images, violent images, oversize features like a witch. You name it, they’ve done it.” Nine months pregnant, the mother of a small child, she’s faced death threats and has to take security measures “a lot more now than I did before.”
Not all the anti-Semitic slurs have come from within the party, but the volume of attacks from the left has convinced Berger she had to quit Labour. “I didn’t make that decision lightly,” she told me, having always believed that Labour was Britain’s anti-racist party par excellence.
Corbyn, who has taken the party sharply leftward from the now reviled Blairite center, and whose anti-Zionism has long been apparent, has insisted, “I’m not an anti-Semite in any form.” He has promised (and promised and promised) to rid the Labour Party of any such poison.
There’s nothing anti-Semitic about sympathy for the Palestinian cause or support of Palestinian statehood or disdain for the rightist government of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and its kick-the-can policies to prolong or eternize the occupation of the West Bank. That should be obvious.
But where anti-Zionism crosses into anti-Semitism should also be obvious: dehumanizing or demonizing Jews and propagating the myth of their sinister omnipotence; accusing Jews of double loyalties as a means to suggest their national belonging is of lesser worth; denying the Jewish people’s right to self-determination; blaming through conflation all Jews for the policies of the Israeli government; pursuing the systematic “Nazification” of Israel; turning Zionism into a synonym of racism.
The denial of the millennial Jewish link to the Holy Land and the dismissal of the legal basis for the modern Jewish state in United Nations Resolution 181 of 1947 (Arab armies went to war against its Palestinian-Jewish territorial compromise and lost) as a means to argue for the abolition of the Jewish homeland and portray it as an immoral, colonial exercise in theft often flirts with anti-Semitism. It is at its most egregious when it issues from Europeans who seem to have forgotten where the Holocaust was perpetrated. Once in the gas chambers was enough for the Jews.
For Corbyn, who turns 70 this year, misunderstandings or imprecision explain incidents like his description of British Zionists as having “no sense of English irony;” or his inviting to Parliament a Palestinian Islamist who had suggested Jews were absent from the World Trade Center on 9/11 (“I have on occasion appeared on platforms with people whose views I completely reject,” Corbyn says); or his appearance in 2014 at a wreath-laying ceremony in Tunis that appears to have honored Palestinians associated with the 1972 Munich Olympics terrorist attack that killed 11 Israelis.
(Corbyn has said he was present but “not involved” in the wreath laying and that he attended out of a desire to see “a fitting memorial to everyone who has died in every terrorist incident everywhere.”)
The semantic evasions and denials that Corbyn “just kind of trots out,” in Berger’s words, have not dented the persistence of the problem, to the point that she’s had it: “Enough is enough.”
Berger is not alone. Eight other Labour M.P.s have quit the party, mainly in protest at Corbyn’s leftward lurch and rule by diktat. All but one of them, Ian Austin, who decried Labour’s “culture” of anti-Semitism, have joined a new Independent Group, bolstered by three Conservative parliamentarians, in an attempt to rebuild the British political center.
The jolt to Labour seems to have galvanized the party to confront the seeping infiltration of anti-Semitism. Tom Watson, the deputy leader, has called on Corbyn to expel Labour members accused of anti-Semitism. They’ve tended to face mild reprimands, if that. John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, said there’d been “a lot of listening but not enough action.” Jon Lansman, a founder of the Momentum organization that has supported Corbyn, now says there is “a major problem” with “hard-core anti-Semitic opinion.” Where have these guys been in recent years during what Pat McFadden, another Labour M.P., described to me as “open season for the abuse of my Jewish colleagues”?
In a typical incident this week, a Labour M.P. who is a Corbyn ally, Chris Williamson, tried to express regret for saying the party had been “too apologetic” about anti-Semitism, only to claim in his “apology” that it is “often forgotten” how few cases of anti-Semitism there are. He has been suspended.
Under Corbyn, actions have usually lagged words. The party decided in 2016 that “Zio,” an insult used by the Ku Klux Klan, was unacceptable. Its use persists as an abbreviation of Zionist, itself turned into a dirty word.
“I am very proud and very relaxed about the fact that I openly support the creation of the State of Israel and the right for the Jewish people to have a homeland,” Berger said, noting that she’s a Zionist but “others have sought to hijack the word” and “we know” what “language can inspire and what actions it can result in.”
We do. This month, Yellow Vest protesters in Paris accosted Alain Finkielkraut, a leading French essayist and the son of an Auschwitz survivor. Their abuse included cries of “Back to Tel Aviv” and “France belongs to us.” A Jewish cemetery was desecrated. Anti-Semitic incidents rose 74 percent in France in 2018.
The eternal Jewish ogre resurfaces — a convenient scapegoat for economic resentments, precariousness, fear, frustration or Israel’s oppression of Palestinians. Corbyn, wittingly or not, has fed this poison, as his party is now realizing. He has made an irrefutable case for Israel through Labour’s abetting of revived European Jew hatred.
The fundamental link between European anti-Semitism, annihilationist at its apogee, and the decision of Jews to embrace Zionism in the conviction that only a Jewish homeland could keep them safe is something contemporary European theorists of a demonic Israel prefer to forget. This amnesia is an additional reason that I, too, like Berger, am a proud Zionist.
A homeland for the Jewish people, which is what the State of Israel was created to be, can’t be majority Palestinian. At the same time, a legitimate democracy can’t deny rights to a national minority. Israel walks this fine line; in the 52-year-old West Bank occupation it tramples on it. That is why Israel needs a two-state solution. There is no other way to remain Jewish and democratic, no other way to escape the insidious moral corrosion of dominion.
I don’t believe Jews would be just fine without Israel any more than I believe the moon is a balloon. To criticize Israel is imperative; to disavow it, for a Jew, a form of ahistorical folly.
WAILUKU, Hawaii — The Latest on two inmates who escaped from a Maui jail (all times local):
3 p.m.
An inmate who escaped from a Hawaii jail has been found.
Police arrested Troy Diego Monday after an island-wide manhunt. The search began when he and another inmate escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center on Sunday.
Authorities say staff members noticed a broken door in the back of a dorm building.
Barret Paman turned himself in to police later that day.
Diego is awaiting trial for theft and unauthorized entry into a vehicle. Paman is awaiting trial for burglary, theft and firearms charges. Both men now face an added escape charge.
The escapes come after a riot at the jail last month. The jail was designed to hold 301 inmates but had 410 at the time of the disturbance. State corrections officials say inmates were upset with extreme overcrowding.
___
8 a.m.
One of two inmates who escaped from a Maui jail remains missing.
Authorities say Troy Diego and Barret Paman escaped from Maui Community Correctional Center Sunday. Authorities say staff members later noticed a broken door in the back of a dorm building.
Paman later turned himself in to Maui police. He's awaiting trial for burglary, theft and firearms charges.
Diego remains missing Monday. He's awaiting trial for theft and unauthorized entry into a vehicle.
Maui Mayor Michael Victorino urges everyone to "stay calm but remain vigilant" during the island-wide manhunt.
The escapes come after a riot at the jail last month. The jail was designed to hold 301 inmates but had 410 at the time of the disturbance. State corrections officials say inmates were upset with extreme overcrowding.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Once he was freed from jail and the charges against him were dropped, Pedro Hernandez expected to get a fresh start. 
He had spent a year in jail rather than plead guilty to a shooting in 2015 that he said he did not commit, and his case had become a rallying point for supporters of changing bail laws. 
Eventually the Bronx district attorney dropped charges against him in the shooting and a separate schoolyard assault. By December, he was set to go to college, and even had a meeting with former President Barack Obama on his schedule.
But on Sunday night, Mr. Hernandez, 19, was arrested again in the Bronx. The police said he was involved in a robbery and knife attack that left one man with a gash on his face that required 15 stitches. 
Mr. Hernandez’s lawyers suggested the police and prosecutors were targeting their client and interfering with his ability to build a better life. 
“If the system stays out of Pedro’s way, he is a unique kid with a bright future,” said Alex Spiro, Mr. Hernandez’s defense lawyer in multiple cases.
 Julia Deutsch of the Bronx Defenders, which is representing Mr. Hernandez on the newest charges, said that Mr. Hernandez was the victim in the attack. She said his arrest is the latest instance of a pattern of harassment by law enforcement, and a series of false charges. Mr. Hernandez has been accused of three driving infractions since the 2015 shooting charges were dropped, twice for driving with a suspended license and once on charges he ran a red light.
“Mr. Hernandez has been a target of the N.Y.P.D.,” Ms. Deutsch said in the statement, adding, “The details of this case will come out and the truth will prevail.”
The police said that Mr. Hernandez and three other men walked up to two men who were waiting for a cab in the Bronx at around 7 a.m. on Sunday. 
According to a criminal complaint, the two groups started yelling at each other. Mr. Hernandez said, “Oh, you want problems.” Then he brandished a knife, swinging it in one victim’s direction and striking the other across the face, the complaint said.
After that, one of the unidentified men with Mr. Hernandez beat the first victim with a silver baseball bat while the other ripped a Gucci watch and a gold chain from his body, the court document said.
In her statement, Ms. Deutsch said that Mr. Hernandez’s face had been slashed and that he had been stabbed in the back on Sunday.
Mr. Hernandez was seeking medical attention, Ms. Deutsch said, when the police “arrived, arrested and forcibly removed him from the hospital.”
The police confirmed that Mr. Hernandez was arrested at the Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx. He was charged with multiple counts of robbery, assault, menacing and related crimes. He could face up to 25 years in prison on the top count, a felony charge of assault.
The Bronx district attorney’s office declined to comment. A spokesman for the Police Department, Phil Walzak, rejected Mr. Hernandez’s lawyer’s claim that the teenager had been unfairly targeted. “The facts of the case are crystal clear, and these allegations are flatly false,” Mr. Walzak said.
But Mr. Spiro linked the charges to a series of dismissed cases against Mr. Hernandez that he said exposed flaws in the criminal justice system.
“When someone has been falsely arrested as many times as Pedro, and every case has been dismissed, it doesn’t seem to warrant the comment I make over and over again,” he said.
Mr. Hernandez’s legal troubles attracted national attention after he was arrested in connection with a shooting in the Bronx in 2015. The victim, a 15-year-old boy, survived and said he did not see who had pulled the trigger. But Mr. Hernandez was arrested months later, and the judge in the case set an unusually high bail of $250,000.
Mr. Hernandez then became a cause célèbre for people seeking to abolish the cash bail system when he refused to accept a plea bargain that would have spared him jail time. Instead, he spent a year on Rikers Island, maintaining his innocence while a private investigator hired by his family worked to find evidence that could exonerate him.
The Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights foundation eventually put up the bail to free Mr. Hernandez, saying that Mr. Hernandez’s case exemplified the injustice of cash bail. (This year, the Legislature eliminated cash bail for most misdemeanors and nonviolent felonies.)
The foundation, which did not respond to a request for comment, also solicited the help of Mr. Spiro, a prominent lawyer who has represented high-profile clients like the New England Patriots owner, Robert Kraft.
The charges against Mr. Hernandez related to the shooting were ultimately dismissed in September 2017. Prosecutors said at the time that they lacked the evidence they needed, and that witnesses’ accounts were contradictory.
Mr. Hernandez and his family blamed the inconsistencies on detectives and an assistant district attorney, who they maintained had coerced witnesses to give false testimony. Mr. Hernandez has filed a civil-rights suit against the city, which is still pending. 
Still, he hoped he would be able to move forward with his education, his lawyers said. Mr. Hernandez had completed high school in jail, and he said he had wanted to enroll in college last fall. But those plans had to be delayed, his family said, because he and his sister were still facing charges related to an unrelated robbery in a schoolyard in 2015.
Mr. Hernandez sought to get those charges dismissed, too, and succeeded last October. On Tuesday, Mr. Spiro confirmed that Mr. Hernandez had enrolled in college.
But Mr. Hernandez’s problems with law enforcement had not ended. Hours before he was scheduled to meet Mr. Obama at a gala in Manhattan in December, Mr. Hernandez was arrested again. He was accused of driving a car while his driver’s license was suspended.
On Sunday, the police picked him up at the hospital and charged him with the robbery. So far, Mr. Hernandez is the only person arrested in connection with the incident. City jail records show that he was released from custody on Monday after posting bail.
The care facility in Arizona where an incapacitated woman was raped and later gave birth will soon be closed, the nursing home’s operator announced on Thursday.
In a statement, the operator, Hacienda HealthCare, said it was working to determine exactly how it would move its patients from the Phoenix facility elsewhere and did not specify a location. It pledged to do “everything in our power” to ensure that the transition would be smooth.
A spokesman for the company said 37 patients would be affected.
“The Hacienda Healthcare board of directors, after a great deal of careful consideration, has come to understand that it is simply not sustainable to continue to operate our Intermediate Care Facility for the Intellectually Disabled,” the company’s statement said, adding that the board had voted on Feb. 1 to close the nursing center.
State agencies were notified of the board vote the same day.
Some state officials, though, reacted Thursday with surprise. They said that when they met with Hacienda officials on Monday, the company acknowledged the board’s vote, but did not provide notice to terminate its contract or provide a transition plan as required by its contract with the state. As recently as Thursday, state officials added, discussions about how to maintain patient care at the center were continuing.
“We find this announcement very concerning,” said Patrick Ptak, a spokesman for Gov. Douglas A. Ducey. “State agencies have been actively working to increase oversight at this facility to ensure patients are safe and well cared for. For some patients at the facility, this is the only home they know or remember. Forcing this medically fragile community to move should be a last resort. Everyone’s first priority should be protecting their health and safety.”
The announcement came about two weeks after a former nurse there, Nathan D. Sutherland, was charged with having sexually assaulted the woman. Mr. Sutherland, 36, pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to that charge and to a count of child abuse.
Over the past several weeks, the case has rattled Arizona, raising concerns about the way patients in long-term disability care are treated and placing Hacienda HealthCare under intense scrutiny.
The criminal case started to unfold in late December, when a woman at Hacienda who cannot talk or walk unexpectedly gave birth to a boy. (The baby is said to be doing well and is in the custody of the woman’s family.)
Over the weeks that followed, the investigation became the main focus of the Phoenix Police Department, its chief said, and led to questions about the company’s operations and conduct. A DNA sample taken from Mr. Sutherland, who was assigned to treat the woman, was eventually found to match that of the newborn, the police said.
Earlier this week, Governor Ducey raised the possibility of deploying the state attorney general’s office in a wide-ranging investigation into the company. The governor requested an inquiry into how Hacienda employees did not know that the 29-year-old patient, who has been at the nursing center since 1992, had been raped or notice that she was pregnant, according to a copy of the letter he sent the attorney general, Mark Brnovich.
It was not clear Thursday what action Mr. Brnovich’s office planned to take in response to the governor’s letter. A spokeswoman for the attorney general declined to comment.
In addition to investigating the woman’s case, the governor requested a broader investigation into Hacienda’s management, with a focus on possible financial fraud and “violations of Arizona’s civil rights act” in its company culture. Since 2016, the Arizona health agency that manages the state’s Medicaid program has been investigating $3.4 million in possible Medicaid fraud at Hacienda.
Since the assault case was made public, Hacienda officials have pledged to cooperate with local and state investigators, as well as work to regain the public’s trust. The company recently hired a former top prosecutor in Maricopa County, where Phoenix is located, to conduct its own investigation into the assault.
MOUNT HOLLY, N.J. — A New Jersey woman pleaded guilty Monday to her role in concocting a feel-good tale about a homeless man rescuing her from the side of a highway in order to scam 14,000 donors out of $400,000 in GoFundMe contributions.
Katelyn McClure pleaded guilty in state Superior Court to second-degree theft by deception under a plea agreement that calls for her to serve four years in state prison and help repay the $400,000.
She had initially faced up to 10 years in prison if convicted under the charges prosecutors initially brought.
McClure, 29, of Bordentown, must also testify against her former boyfriend and co-defendant Mark D'Amico, who also faces state charges in the scheme. He has denied wrongdoing.
McClure's plea comes after Johnny Bobbitt, a homeless military veteran, was sentenced Friday to five years' probation for his role in the scheme. Under his plea agreement, he will also help repay the money, according to prosecutors.
The trio fabricated the story that Bobbitt rescued McClure from the side of a Philadelphia highway in 2017 to enrich themselves, according to prosecutors.
The group solicited donations through GoFundMe, purportedly to help Bobbitt, and garnered significant attention with a media blitz that included posing for photos together, revisiting the spot where they claimed their first encounter happened, appearing on "Good Morning America." In all, more than 14,000 people contributed.
Authorities said the three split the money and spent lavishly — as they had planned all along — including on a BMW, designer bags and trips to Las Vegas and elsewhere.
They say the scheme "was designed to pull at the heartstrings of caring, trusting individuals."
Authorities started an investigation in 2018 last year after Bobbitt sued the couple for allegedly not giving him his share of the money.
GoFundMe has said it refunded the donations.
McClure faces sentencing on state charges in June.
She also pleaded guilty to one federal count of wire fraud conspiracy in the scheme, and Bobbitt also pleaded guilty to a federal money laundering charge last month.
No sentencing date has been set for either on those federal charges.
D'Amico doesn't face any federal charges. He and McClure were charged last fall in state court with theft and conspiracy.
___
This story has been corrected to show that prosecutors say McClure must help repay the $400,000, not that she alone has to repay it.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Otis Boone insisted he was innocent from the time he was accused of two robberies in 2011, when he was 19. But the two victims who had their cellphones snatched by a knife-wielding man picked Mr. Boone out of separate police lineups. Though there was no physical evidence, he was convicted and sentenced to 25 years in prison.
Mr. Boone, of Brooklyn, took his appeal to New York’s highest court, where a majority of judges ruled that the jury should have been told that witnesses often struggle to identify strangers of a different race because mistaken identifications are a major factor in wrongful convictions. Mr. Boone is black; the victims were white.
The Court of Appeals granted Mr. Boone a retrial and made it mandatory going forward for judges to explain what psychologists call the “cross-race effect” to jurors whenever a case involves a witness identifying of a suspect of a different race.
At his second trial last month, public defenders presented evidence that Mr. Boone was a mile away from one of the robberies five minutes before it occurred. He was acquitted on March 1, after spending seven of the last eight years behind bars.
Mr. Boone, 27, wept at the verdict. Some of the jurors hugged him and his fiancée. One juror said the panel had reached a decision in under five minutes.
“To be serving someone else’s time is a hardship,” Mr. Boone said in an interview. “It was many times that I wanted to give up.”
Mr. Boone’s ordeal illustrates a shift in how the state’s criminal justice system handles witness identifications. They were once considered strong evidence of guilt, and they remain a persuasive tool for prosecutors.
But psychologists who study memory have long warned that witness identifications are often shaky after a crime because of factors like stress, the short duration of the incident and the presence of a weapon. Identifications can also be influenced by a witness’s biases and by subtle cues from the police and prosecutors.
“Because memory is so full of holes and flawed, as a witness gets exposed to a suspect, their memory of the case moves toward the suspect,” Nancy Franklin, a psychology professor at Stony Brook University, said. She testified for the defense at trial. “I think the Boone case presents a powerful example of the sorts of issues that my field has uncovered that lead to false convictions.”
About 70 percent of the 364 convictions overturned with DNA evidence in the United States since 1992 involved witnesses who identified the wrong assailant, and nearly half of those mistaken identifications involved a witness and suspect of different races, according to the Innocence Project, a nonprofit that seeks exonerations.
The 2017 decision by the Court of Appeals in Mr. Boone’s case made New York one of only a handful of states with a cross-race effect rule. (New Jersey and Massachusetts are among those with similar rules.) In New York, some defense lawyers refer to it as “the Boone rule.”
Previously, the instruction was required only if the defense requested it after an expert testified at trial about witness testimony. Now, judges are required to give the instruction upon request, unless neither side disputes the identity of the suspect.
The Brooklyn district attorney, Eric Gonzalez, supports the new rule, but prosecutors have said they remain convinced Mr. Boone is guilty.
“We believe the evidence supported his guilt, and that the jury in the second trial should have been allowed to hear evidence regarding the high degree of confidence the witnesses expressed in their identifications within days of the incidents,” the spokesman, Oren Yaniv, said.
Some prosecutors say the new rule is unfair because it suggests a racial bias on the part of a witness without any context from experts or testimony about the witness’s life. One Court of Appeals judge on the seven-member panel said his colleagues went too far in making it mandatory.
John Wixted, a psychology professor at the University of California, San Diego, said the Court of Appeals erred in focusing the rule on race instead of on the witness’s confidence in making the initial identification. Witnesses who are highly confident when identifying a suspect almost always pick the culprit, regardless of race, he said. He testified at Mr. Boone’s trial for the prosecution.
“It’s confidence that tells you what you want to know, not race,” he said in an interview. “You’re not going to get a lot of high-confidence identifications with cross-race, but when you do, they’re highly reliable.”
In nearly all wrongful convictions where the authorities have made note of witnesses’ confidence, he added, witnesses signaled they were not sure about whom they picked, but the police, prosecutors and judges failed to understand what that meant.
Mr. Boone has filed notice that he plans to sue the city for false arrest and malicious prosecution.
Bess Stiffelman, the trial lawyer who represented him for the Legal Aid Society, said the authorities showed “a shocking disregard for the risk of false identification here and for whether or not they may have arrested an innocent suspect.”
A spokesman for the Law Department declined to comment. Phillip Walzak, a deputy commissioner and spokesman for the Police Department, said the claim was under review.
The lead investigator, Maureen Sheehan, testified at Mr. Boone’s trial that she had not reviewed the case notes before administering the lineup and that she did not know detectives had recovered one of the victims’ phones and returned it to him.
The victims in Mr. Boone’s case were a teenager and a man in his 20s who were robbed 10 days apart in February 2011 in Midwood, an enclave for Orthodox Jews. Each time, the assailant asked for the time, prompting the victims to pull out their phones, which he then snatched.
The victims said they had only a short time to see the attacker’s face, which was partially covered in the second incident, and that he had a weapon — factors that psychologists have said undermine witness identifications.
Two weeks passed between the second robbery and the police lineup, which Mr. Boone’s defense said was unfair. He was on the end, standing four inches taller than the man next to him.
Three of the five men used to fill out the lineup had visibly long hair, even though the witnesses said their assailant’s hair had been short. The younger victim picked Mr. Boone only after hearing him say, “What time is it?”
A state policing panel recommended new guidelines for conducting lineups and photo arrays in 2017 aimed at making them fairer, and Mr. Walzak said the Police Department had adopted some of them. For instance, the officer administering the test is not allowed to know who the suspect is, a practice that helps avoid steering witnesses to the suspect. Witnesses are also asked to describe how confident they are after identifying a suspect.
The protocols help to ensure the lineups and photo arrays are not “unduly suggestive,” Mr. Walzak said.
By the second trial, Mr. Boone’s defense team had found evidence supporting his alibi: government records showing two transactions on his public benefits card that took place a mile away from the second robbery about five minutes before it occurred.
The prosecutor tried to make the case that Mr. Boone had taken a four-minute bus ride to commit the robbery, but jurors did not believe that.
“It just seemed wildly unlikely,” Meredith Coffey, one of the jurors, said. She noted that Mr. Boone had moved to Brooklyn only a couple of weeks before the first robbery occurred.
Ms. Coffey, 32, of Park Slope, said she had been willing to convict based on witness testimony alone, but that she did not find it compelling in this case. The cross-race effect instruction from the judge confirmed her doubts about its reliability, she said.
Mr. Boone was freed from prison in January 2018, but the experience left him struggling to trust anyone. The long wait for a retrial cost him a job because he missed so much work to appear in court, he said. There was a time when he wanted to be a police officer like one of his uncles, but now he said he had lost faith in the criminal justice system.
“I want things to change,” he said. “I want justice.”
MEXICO CITY — The Mexican Red Cross briefly shuttered operations in the central city of Salamanca after a man wounded by gunfire was pulled from one of its ambulances by gunmen over the weekend.
The Guanajuato state chapter of the first-aid group said it resumed ambulance service Sunday in the city of roughly 270,000 people after suspending service following Saturday's incident.
Salamanca has been plagued by violence between fuel theft gangs due to its gasoline refinery.
In a statement, the Mexican Red Cross said it "is an impartial and neutral institution before all conflicts and its purpose is to relieve human suffering," adding the hashtag "We are not part of the conflict."
Earlier this month, a woman with gunshot wounds was executed inside an ambulance in Mexico's Pacific state of Guerrero.
JERUSALEM — Israel's president said on Tuesday a majority of members of parliament had advised him to have Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu form a government after the April 9 election, effectively ensuring his nomination.
In office for the past decade, Netanyahu won a fifth term despite an announcement by Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit in February that he intends to charge the prime minister in three corruption cases. Netanyahu has denied wrongdoing.
President Reuven Rivlin chooses a party leader whom he judges has the best prospect of putting together a ruling coalition. He will announce his candidate on Wednesday.
In broadcast remarks on Tuesday, the second day of Rivlin's consultations with political parties on their preferences for prime minister, he said Netanyahu "now has a majority of Knesset members" behind him.
"Any room I had for manoeuvre has effectively been removed at this moment," he added.
Netanyahu's nomination has been a foregone conclusion since right-wing and religious parties allied with Netanyahu's Likud captured the largest number of seats in the Knesset in last week's ballot and his closest rival, centrist Benny Gantz, conceded defeat.
Netanyahu has said he intends to build a coalition with five far-right, right-wing and ultra-Orthodox Jewish parties that would give the Likud-led government 65 seats, four more than his outgoing administration.
Representatives of all of those parties told Rivlin at the meetings, broadcast live on the internet, that they recommended Netanyahu. 
Gantz, a former military chief of staff whose Blue and White party won 35 parliamentary seats, would likely be next in line to try to assemble a government if Netanyahu fails to do so within 42 days of being chosen by Rivlin.
Likud, like Gantz's party, secured 35 Knesset seats, up from 30 it had won in the previous election in 2015.
Netanyahu is under no legal obligation to resign if indicted. He can still argue, at a pre-trial hearing whose date has not been set, against the formal filing of bribery and fraud charges against him.
He would become Israel's longest-serving prime minister in July.
 (Editing by Mark Heinrich and Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON — In June 2016, five months before the American presidential election, Julian Assange made a bold prediction during a little-noticed interview with a British television show.
“WikiLeaks has a very big year ahead,” he said, just seconds after announcing that the website he founded would soon be publishing a cache of emails related to Hillary Clinton.
He was right. But an indictment unsealed on Thursday charging Mr. Assange with conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer in 2010 makes no mention of the central role that WikiLeaks played in the Russian campaign to undermine Mrs. Clinton’s presidential chances and help elect President Trump. It remains unclear whether the arrest of Mr. Assange will be a key to unlocking any of the lingering mysteries surrounding the Russians, the Trump campaign and the plot to hack an election.
The Justice Department spent years examining whether Mr. Assange was working directly with the Russian government, but legal experts point out that what is known about his activities in 2016 — including publishing stolen emails — is not criminal, and therefore it would be difficult to bring charges against him related to the Russian interference campaign.
Numerous significant questions are left unanswered, including what, if anything, Mr. Assange knew about the identity of Guccifer 2.0, a mysterious hacker who American intelligence and law enforcement officials have identified as a front for Russian military intelligence operatives.
Court documents have revealed that it was Russian intelligence — using the Guccifer persona — that provided Mr. Assange thousands of emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the chairman of the Clinton campaign.
Another question is whether Mr. Assange was a conduit between the Russian hackers and the Trump campaign. Mr. Assange exchanged emails with Donald Trump Jr., Mr. Trump’s eldest son, during the campaign, and a Trump campaign official sent Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to the president, to get information about the hacked Democratic emails, according to a January indictment by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel.
Mr. Mueller concluded his investigation without an indictment that directly connected WikiLeaks, the Russians and the Trump campaign, suggesting that prosecutors did not find sufficient evidence that Mr. Assange knowingly engaged in a conspiracy with Russia to help the Trump campaign.
But the report drafted by Mr. Mueller’s team, and expected to be released next week, could have additional details about the ties between the Trump campaign and Mr. Assange. Those details could be redacted by the Justice Department, however, if officials believe the material includes classified intelligence, said Carrie Cordero, a former official with the Justice Department’s National Security Division and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
“What was the actual interaction between Russian intelligence surrogates, WikiLeaks and Trump campaign surrogates?” she said. “That is a question that has not yet been answered.”
On Thursday, congressional Democrats sent a letter to Attorney General William P. Barr again demanding that they be provided the full, unredacted report, along with underlying evidence.
The special counsel also handed off his work to other prosecutors, including those who have long been examining Mr. Assange’s dealings with Guccifer, the Russian intelligence front.
Many Democrats and Republicans remain convinced that Mr. Assange knowingly worked with Russian intelligence. On Thursday, Senator Richard M. Burr, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks “have effectively acted as an arm of the Russian intelligence services for years.” The committee’s Democratic vice chairman, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, said Mr. Assange had become “a direct participant in Russian efforts to undermine the West.”
Mr. Assange has long been a polarizing figure — hailed at the beginning of his career as champion for government transparency but also viewed by American national security officials as a disruptive force who conspired with Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst, to publish hundreds of thousands of classified documents.
But it was WikiLeaks’ publication of material stolen by Russian intelligence in 2016 that hardened the view of national security officials.
In April 2017, in one of his first major speeches, Mike Pompeo — who was C.I.A. director at the time but months earlier, as a Republican congressman, had praised WikiLeaks for its releases that damaged the Clinton campaign — signaled that the government would take a hard line on WikiLeaks.
Mr. Pompeo compared WikiLeaks to “a hostile intelligence service,” and said it sought support from anti-democratic countries as it targeted the United States with its disclosures.
Mr. Pompeo’s public remarks coincided with a private push against Mr. Assange by the Trump administration. The C.I.A. intensified espionage efforts against WikiLeaks, seeking to learn more about his interactions with the Russian intelligence operatives.
The timing of Mr. Assange’s actions fueled suspicions. His June 2016 interview announcing the impending release of Democratic emails came three days after a meeting at Trump Tower in New York between Russians and senior Trump campaign officials — a meeting set up on the promise that the Russians would have damaging information about Mrs. Clinton.
Throughout the 2016 campaign, Mr. Assange played down accusations of Russian interference, and misled the public on his source for the damaging documents WikiLeaks released.
He offered a $20,000 reward for information about the killing in Washington of Seth Rich, a young Democratic National Committee staff member shot to death in an apparent bungled street robbery. Some supporters of Mr. Trump suggested that it was Mr. Rich who had leaked the committee’s emails and that he had been killed in retaliation.
During an August 2016 discussion with Dutch television about the sources of WikiLeaks’ information, Mr. Assange suddenly brought up Mr. Rich’s killing.
“That was just a robbery, I believe, wasn’t it?” the interviewer said. “What are you suggesting?”
“I’m suggesting that our sources take risks,” Mr. Assange said. He then declined to say if Mr. Rich was a source.
President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, testified before Congress with evidence that the president had committed campaign finance violations and is of terrible moral character. But it turns out the real victim wasn’t our democracy. 
It was Mark Meadows, a Republican who represents North Carolina’s 11th Congressional District. 
Mr. Meadows somehow managed to turn a hearing about whether the president broke the law into a minutes-long temper tantrum. He whined that it was wrong for Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, to say that Mr. Meadows’s decision to invite a black woman, Lynne Patton, a Department of Housing and Urban Development official who attended the hearing in her personal capacity, as a prop to show that Mr. Trump couldn’t possibly be racist, was itself a racist act. 
Earlier in the hearing, to rebut Mr. Cohen’s charge that the president is racist, Mr. Meadows asked Ms. Patton to stand. Without letting her speak for herself, Mr. Meadows recalled her saying, “There is no way she would work for an individual who is racist.”
Mr. Meadows sat through hours of Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which directly implicated the president in crimes ranging from election fraud to tax fraud to perjury, without displaying a fraction of the emotion he showed while defending himself from what he called a charge of racism. 
He blew up only when Ms. Tlaib said his use of Ms. Patton was a racist act: “Just because a person has a person of color, a black person, working for them does not mean they aren’t racist,” she said, referring to Mr. Trump. “And it is insensitive, and some would even say the fact that someone would actually use a prop, a black woman, in this chamber, in this committee, is alone racist in itself, ” Ms. Tlaib concluded, meaning Mr. Meadows. 
That’s when Mr. Meadows lost it, insisting that Ms. Tlaib’s comments about him be stricken from the record and whipping out the “some of my best friends are black” defense. 
“You and I,” he said to Representative Elijah Cummings, the Oversight Committee chairman, who is black, “have a personal relationship that isn’t based on color.” He insisted that he couldn’t be racist because he had nieces and nephews of color. 
It was a performance that he’s clearly hoping will win him one of next year’s Oscars. He defended his record on race, so we should cast aside that time in 2012 when he embraced the racist birtherism theory to his supporters by saying that “2012 is the time we’re going to send Mr. Obama back home to Kenya or wherever it is.”
Mr. Meadows threw a fit during a hearing where Mr. Cohen claimed the president had said black people were too stupid to vote for him and had called African nations “shithole” countries. There was actual proof of Mr. Trump’s racism on offer, and Mr. Meadows chose to flip out about an accusation instead. It appears that to him, accusations of racism are more dangerous than racist acts themselves.
Mr. Meadows’s hissy fit and Ms. Tlaib’s words feel like a microcosm of where we are right now in America on race. The tide may be turning. The increased visibility of people of color in all sectors, including Congress, and the fearlessness of people of color to speak out about racism are moving us forward. 
It’s all too easy, given the past demographic and ideological makeup of Congress, to picture a version of yesterday’s hearing where there was no Rashida Tlaib there to remind us that racist acts outweigh accusations of racism. 
Where no woman of color stood up against a white man’s insistence on trying to distract us from evidence of racist acts by focusing on his hurt feelings. 
Mr. Cummings, in his closing remarks, said that he thought America was “better than this,” a statement that referred to Mr. Trump’s alleged crimes. But it could have also been applied to Mr. Meadows’s belief that accusations of racism are worse than the real thing.
As a country, are we better than this? Yes — Rashida Tlaib showed us that we can be.
MEXICO CITY — An unpopular president is backed by hard-line military, right-wing parties and conservative elites. He disdains democratic norms and institutions, especially when they investigate his family and top government officials. He recently went on national television to propose drastic measures to solve a crisis many accuse him of provoking. His claims were later exposed by the media as false.
This president is Jimmy Morales of Guatemala, a former television comedian. On Jan. 7, he held a news conference where he announced his decision to withdraw from a United Nations-backed anti-corruption commission, giving its prosecutors a day to leave the country.
Subverting a justice system so that it can no longer protect society and institutions from the predations of powerful criminals is one way to kill a democracy, as happened in Guatemala. But Mr. Morales’s lawless actions against the anti-corruption commission, known as Cicig, and his intentional sabotaging of the rule of law could never succeed without the seemingly unconditional support of the Trump administration and Republicans in the United States Congress. It is up to Democrats in Congress to recognize what is at stake for Guatemala, for the region and even for the United States, and act.
Cicig was conceived by Guatemalans and foreigners concerned that after decades of military dictatorship and internal war, the country’s fledgling democracy was becoming a corrupted narco state. Since 2007, Cicig has been collaborating with Guatemala’s Public Ministry in investigating and prosecuting cases of official corruption and organized crime. 
The agreement governing Cicig’s mandate can be renewed periodically or annulled by the Guatemalan government. The anti-corruption body became especially effective after Iván Velázquez, a renowned Colombian prosecutor, was appointed by the United Nations in 2013 to lead the commission. 
Guatemala has a long history of presidential corruption. Otto Pérez Molina, a former Guatemalan Army general and intelligence chief, went from the presidency to prison, convicted of heading a corruption scheme involving dozens more officials. His immediate predecessor, the center-left president Alvaro Colóm, and members of his cabinet, were also jailed for corruption. 
During his televised address, Mr. Morales accused Cicig of being silent in the face of what he said were human rights abuses and of representing a threat to Guatemalan sovereignty and national security. He appeared with several people accused in panel investigations or their relatives. 
Mr. Morales aimed most of his accusations at Mr. Velázquez, who he banned from the country after a trip to the United States in September. Days before his speech, Mr. Morales had announced that the commission’s mandate would not be renewed when it expires this September, a decision that, though legal, was widely condemned. 
After his Jan. 7 speech, Morales gave Cicig 24 hours to leave country. On the 9th, shortly after Cicig’s international and Guatemalan prosecutors and investigators left the country, the Constitutional Court ruled against Mr. Morales. He refused to comply with that order. Mr. Velázquez continues to lead Cicig from abroad.
With the commission’s work scheduled to end in September, why the sudden urgency to expel its staff? 
Cicig has charged Mr. Morales’s own brother and son with fraud and has been investigating Mr. Morales and his associates for possible campaign finance violations. On Jan. 9, two days after the president ordered the expulsion of the prosecutors from Guatemala, they didn’t show up in the courtroom where the president’s son and brother were being tried; it’s the first trial indefinitely suspended because the president revoked the commission’s mandate. 
Guatemala will hold national elections in June. When his term ends, so will Morales’s immunity from prosecution. Mr. Morales and his political, economic and military allies are maneuvering to block pro-Cicig candidates — especially former Attorney General Thelma Aldana — from running. What Guatemalans refer to as a “slow-motion coup,” prompted by his earlier moves against Cicig, is speeding up.
Meanwhile, the pro-Morales coalition in the country’s congress, known by its critics as “el pacto de corruptos,” is moving to gut the Constitutional Court. Guatemalans are bracing for what’s being deemed as “the restoration”: a return to impunity for corrupt economic and political elites, the release from prison of those charged with crimes by Cicig and the repression of journalists, human rights and judicial activists.
Cicig’s European donor countries and other governments strongly denounced the commission’s expulsion. The United States is Cicig’s largest donor, but the bipartisan consensus that supported it for 11 years has collapsed. Many agree that the role of the United States is likely to be determinative.
Democratic lawmakers in the United States have voiced support for the commission. Representative Norma Torres warned that with its abrupt departure, the “complex cases involving organized crime, drug trafficking and human smuggling would fall apart. Powerful criminals and the corrupt politicians would get away with serious crimes.”
The United States Embassy in Ciudad de Guatemala officially expressed concern “about the future of anti-corruption efforts in Guatemala” but made no mention of Cicig, doing little to dispel concerns that the Trump administration tacitly supports Mr. Morales. Leading Republicans, including Senators Mike Lee of Utah, Marco Rubio of Florida and Rand Paul of Kentucky, and Representative Steve King of Iowa, have praised Mr. Morales for defending Guatemalan sovereignty. 
“Sovereignty” was arguably pertinent to the decision to end Cicig’s mandate, but Mr. Morales’s other actions undermine Guatemalan rule of law and democratic institutions. Representative Rick Crawford, an Arkansas Republican, said on Twitter, “I stand by the people of Guatemala and the decision of their president regarding Cicig” — a ludicrous statement, considering that polls have consistently demonstrated overwhelming Guatemalan support for Cicig, the most recent measuring 71 percent approval.
Republicans’ incredible stance denies a reality in plain view: Mr. Morales is living the Trumpian dream of freeing himself from investigations by illegally shutting them down. 
In 1954, a United States-backed coup ended Guatemala’s decade of democratic rule. Congressional Democrats must now try to save one of the world’s most lawless regions from another tragic descent into chaos and repression.
Representative Torres has taken an important step, warning Guatemala that it risks cuts in economic aid unless it reverses its expulsion of Cicig. The United States can apply the Global Magnitsky act, which gives the president the authority to impose a travel ban and asset freeze on human rights violators in any country, to punish Guatemalan officials who violate human rights. Congress can hold hearings on the repercussions of the Morales government’s actions on regional security and stability, and on the Trump administration’s abetting of those. 
Democrats in Congress should raise their voices in support of the Guatemalan people bravely resisting the Morales “restoration.”
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is close to a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific but may do little to achieve the substantive changes to China’s economy that the United States initially set out to win, people with knowledge of the talks said.
Significant details remain unsettled and the deal is still being discussed but so far, the two sides have agreed on a pact that would largely require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China. In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.
China, which has retaliated against President Trump’s tariffs with its own punishing taxes on American goods, is pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said. It is unclear whether the Trump administration will agree to remove all the tariffs or keep some in place to keep pressure on China. As part of the agreement, the Trump administration has been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.
For Mr. Trump, the ability to announce a deal with China would constitute a victory for a presidency rocked by legal investigations and failed nuclear disarmament talks with North Korea last week. Mr. Trump has spent more than a year accusing China of unfair trade practices and promising to shift the balance of economic power back to the United States.
The agreement under discussion would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.
But early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cybertheft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.
The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable, while China’s promises on curtailing subsidies are also overly broad, a person familiar with the negotiation said. The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data, the person said. In addition, many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage during that period, critics say.
Regardless of what Mr. Trump’s negotiators agree upon, no deal will be final until the president signs onto the agreement. Since starting his trade war last year, Mr. Trump has vacillated between accusing China of destroying American jobs and playing up his strong relationship with President Xi Jinping and his ability to reach a trade deal. Mr. Trump recently began dangling a signing event with Mr. Xi at Mar-a-Lago, the president’s resort, and that ceremony seems to be coming together for later this month. While Mr. Trump wanted a summit meeting earlier in the month, the event could occur at the end of March, after Mr. Xi finishes a scheduled trip through Europe, according to people familiar with the discussions.
China very much wants to present the image that a deal is at hand as several thousand top officials of the Chinese Communist Party and hundreds of the country’s most prominent business leaders gathered in Beijing over the weekend for the annual session of the legislature, the National People’s Congress, which starts on Tuesday.
The Chinese government has been willing to discuss moves that it perceives as being in China’s interest, from long-term purchases of commodities that are needed for Chinese factories to changes in China’s foreign investment law that make it a more attractive place for overseas companies to operate. But people familiar with the Chinese government’s stance say it is determined to say no to policy changes that do not benefit its interest.
Beijing has carried out most of the legal work needed for the legislature to pass a new, comprehensive law on investment by foreign businesses that would help satisfy some of America’s earlier demands. The law will be the framework for China to reduce its limits on foreign stakes in Chinese banks, insurers and asset management companies — something that Mr. Xi had agreed to do in November 2017, when Mr. Trump came to Beijing for talks ahead of the trade war.
In a congressional hearing last week, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, signaled a long road ahead to reaching an agreement but said the United States would push for a substantive deal that did not merely result in purchases of American goods.
“What we want is fair trade that requires structural change and it has to be enforceable,” Mr. Lighthizer said.
He said the United States and China were working to establish an enforcement mechanism that would involve an extensive series of meetings at various levels of government and the threat of tariffs if China was found to have violated the trade agreement.
The Chinese continue to be concerned that, after they have made concessions to get to the brink of a deal, Mr. Trump will be convinced by more hawkish voices in the media or the administration to try to press China for even more, said Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
The trade deal under discussion stems from the Trump administration’s findings last March that Beijing was engaging in unfair trade practices, including pressuring or requiring American companies to transfer their technology and intellectual property to Chinese partners as a condition of doing business in the country. The investigation found that China’s practices hurt American exports, job numbers and wages.
Mr. Trump has long attacked China’s economic practices, likening it to a “rape of our country” and “the greatest theft in the history of the world” while campaigning for the White House.
The president has continued to accuse China of engaging in nefarious practices to get a leg up in global trade and has imposed tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods to pressure Beijing to stop. The trade war, which has raged for months, has begun to hurt American companies that depend on China for sales and production, and many large multinational firms have said the trade war will crimp 2019 profits.
David Loevinger, who was the Treasury’s senior coordinator for China affairs in the first term of the Obama administration, said he thought there was too much optimism in China and the United States that a trade deal would roll back most or all of the tariffs that President Trump imposed last year.
“What’s very clear is we’ve reached the peak of the tariff war,” said Mr. Loevinger, now a managing director for emerging markets at TCW, an asset-management company in Los Angeles. “The question is how much of a rollback do we get — my expectation is probably not very much.”
Last week, Mr. Trump said he would delay imposing higher tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods, citing substantial progress in trade talks. On Saturday, Mr. Trump said he was asking China to end its retaliatory tariffs on meat and other products.
“I have asked China to immediately remove all Tariffs on our agricultural products (including beef, pork, etc.) based on the fact that we are moving along nicely with Trade discussions and I did not increase their second traunch of Tariffs to 25% on March 1st,” the president wrote Saturday on Twitter. “This is very important for our great farmers — and me!”
TIRANA — Police killed one of several gunmen in an exchange of fire on Tuesday after they broke into Albania's international airport and drove away with a shipment of money, police said.
The masked and armed thieves smashed through an entrance used by the fire services to get access to the cash shipment and fled with the money, triggering a police chase, police said in a statement.
Witnesses on the plane targeted by the thieves, which was headed to Vienna, told reporters the aircraft's engines were running when three people wearing masks and military fatigues stepped up to the belly of the plane, threatening staff with guns and ordering them on the ground.
"The perpetrators exchanged fire with the police during the chase in a secondary road and one of them lost his life in that exchange," the police statement said. 
Media reports from the scene said the dead man was found with an assault weapon, a grenade and magazines with bullets. Elite police aided by an helicopter were giving chase to at least three of his accomplices still on the loose.
Police confirmed a sum of money had been stolen but did not say how much. Reports initially spoke of a sum of 2 million euros ($2.25 million) being stolen, but later said it might be five times as much. 
Albania-based foreign banks ship out hard currency via air through Rinas airport to Vienna, because the central bank does not accept their deposits of hard currency.
The shipments have been attacked recent years, once at the airport and twice on the road leading to the airport. Police retrieved some of the money from the last robbery after finding it stashed underground in pressure cookers.
 (Reporting by Benet Koleka; Editing by Frances Kerry)
Federal prosecutors are recommending that Mary Boone, the veteran art dealer, be sent to prison for as much as three years, saying she deliberately defrauded the government by filing false tax returns and evading $3 million in taxes.
Ms. Boone, who is to be sentenced on Jan. 18, pleaded guilty last year to two counts of filing false returns, a charge that carries a maximum three-year prison sentence. Her lawyers had asked Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein of Federal District Court in Manhattan to spare her any prison time, writing that her offenses were the product of depression and anxiety brought on by childhood trauma rather than greed.
Prosecutors rejected that argument in court papers this week, arguing that Ms. Boone had achieved a measure of financial stability and comfort that “most people can only dream about” and should serve 30 to 37 months in prison.
“Boone was the sole architect and beneficiary of this tax fraud scheme and, contrary to her assertions now, engaged in it out of pure greed — to line her own pockets by cheating the system,” the prosecutors wrote.
Ms. Boone opened her gallery in SoHo in 1977 and rose to prominence while showing the work of artists like Julian Schnabel and Jean-Michel Basquiat. She remained a constant in the ever-changing art world and now operates two gallery locations — one on the Upper East Side and the other in Chelsea.
In their court filing, prosecutors described a multipart scheme that Ms. Boone was said to have carried out between 2009 and 2011, using money from her gallery to pay for personal expenses and then claiming them as business deductions. They said the personal expenses included $793,003 used to remodel her Manhattan apartment and about $300,000 in personal credit card charges. Those charges, the prosecutors wrote, included beauty salon purchases of $24,380, nearly $15,000 spent on jewelry, nearly $14,000 on products from Hermès and more than $5,000 on items from Louis Vuitton.
As part of her fraud, prosecutors said, Ms. Boone tried to conceal the personal nature of some expenses by listing them as related to business in her handwritten tax ledgers. For example, they said, she identified $600,000 in payments to a contractor remodeling her apartment as a business expense under the categories “commission” and “fee/design.”
In addition, prosecutors said, Ms. Boone inflated the gallery’s stated expenses and income to fraudulently generate business losses when, in reality, the business was profitable.
Ms. Boone’s lawyers have argued that her troubled childhood led to mental health issues, a suicide attempt and drug and alcohol abuse. The poverty of her early life left her fearful that, despite her success, she would end up destitute and dependent upon others, they wrote, creating “a feeling of inevitable doom” and an “irrational fear that everything would fall apart.”
Prosecutors responded that Ms. Boone, in that case, might have been expected to have saved her undeclared, untaxed income instead of spending large amounts on apartment renovations and luxury purchases.
“Boone’s conduct clearly demonstrates that she was motivated by greed and a desire to maintain her lavish lifestyle,” they wrote. “Even if it meant breaking the law.”
It’s often thought that to become a poet, it helps to be a little gonzo. As the 16-year-old Arthur Rimbaud famously put it, “The Poet makes himself a seer by a long, gigantic and rational derangement of all the senses” — a description that, but for the careful inclusion of “rational,” makes poetry seem less a craft than an extreme lifestyle choice. As for Rimbaud it frequently was; his flailing misadventures with his lover Paul Verlaine are a case study in knives, bullets, profanity, theft and dubious personal hygiene. The idea behind this outré behavior was that “deranging the senses” doesn’t simply mean sitting at your desk having especially unusual thoughts; it means actively surrendering to your own unconscious and often unconventional desires. The poet’s sense of self becomes like a medieval tapestry obscuring a secret passage; it must be torn aside so that what waits in the darkness — monster or treasure — can be discovered.
This way of thinking has two notable consequences. The first is that it puts an emphasis on who a poet is (“a seer”) rather than on what he creates (poems). The second is that it leads easily to the assumption that booze and drugs aren’t merely a poet’s occasional companions, but his indispensable partners. After all, if the goal is to transcend yourself and cross boundaries, few things will help you on your way as speedily as Old Overholt. The drunken poet, according to this view, isn’t merely drunk in the way a lawyer might be drunk, or an orthopedic surgeon, or even just a sad, anxious person. No, the poet has made a sacrifice. He is drunk for art.
Which brings us to Charles Bukowski’s latest book, ON DRINKING (Ecco/HarperCollins, $26.99). At this point, new books by Bukowski tend to be pretty old. Bukowski’s publisher has issued something like 20 volumes from “Buk” since the writer’s death in 1994, frequently with large chunks of them scavenged from previously published writing. The many recycled poems, letters and prose fragments in “On Drinking” follow previous collections including “On Cats” and “On Love” and “On Writing,” with “On Cats Who Love Drinking and Writing” presumably waiting in the wings. Indeed, one way to measure Bukowski’s distance from the usual confines of the American poetry world is to consider that when Elizabeth Bishop’s publisher released a single, meticulously edited volume of uncollected material, it resulted in a minor scandal, whereas Bukowski’s current editors could probably trot out a book of his selected bodega receipts (“On Fritos”?) and no one would bat an eye.
If Bukowski were alive, that would probably be fine with him too. Bukowski relished his image as a swaggering outsider, the kind of man who, having consented to read his poetry at a college, “put down my poems and asked if anybody wanted to arm wrestle.” (Someone did; naturally Bukowski won.) In “On Drinking,” his escapades are entirely typical and roughly as follows: He goes to, copes with or barely avoids jail. He mouths off to cops. He gets into unprovoked fistfights that take three pages to describe and that involve dozens of barehanded punches to the head. He offers to clean a bar’s dirty blinds for money and whiskey, and then, Tom Sawyer-style, persuades the other patrons to do the job for him. He is coated in vomit and/or blood with the regularity of an E.R. nurse. He pleasures, or fails to pleasure, scores of women, none of whom are dissuaded by the foregoing vomit or blood. And he wants nothing to do with modern writers who “lecture at universities / in tie and suit, / the little boys soberly studious, / the little girls with glazed eyes.”
This boozy, cartoon machismo has generally served Bukowski well, in the sense that 25 years after his death he still has a sizable audience by the standards of a fiction writer and a colossal audience by the standards of a poet. As you might expect, that readership is not there for displays of technical prowess. The poems in “On Drinking” are distinguishable from the prose mostly by virtue of line breaks that are inserted in why-not fashion; as in, “once in Paris / drunk on national TV / before 50 million Frenchmen / I began babbling vulgar thoughts / and when the host put his hand over my / mouth / I leaped up from the round table …” There’s basically no difference between these lines and the prose narrative that precedes them, except that the prose involves an extended brawl while the poem includes Bukowski pulling a knife on some French security guards.
But to say that Bukowski doesn’t care about technique is not to say that his work is uncalculated. His relentlessly autobiographical approach leads to a dilemma that American poets in particular have been familiar with for well over half a century. This is the fact that, as the poet and critic Donald Davie once put it, a writer who trades on the raw facts of a rough life often “confesses to discreditable sentiments or behavior, but in doing so he demands credit for having the courage or the honesty of his shamelessness.” Or in Elizabeth Bishop’s slightly tarter formulation, such a writer is constantly saying, “I do all these awful things — but don’t you really think I’m awfully nice?”
And Bukowski does want to seem awfully nice — very much so. It’s interesting to go through “On Drinking” and note the many things that Bukowski either omits or wants the reader to avoid thinking about. Consider “night school,” which is set in “the drinking driver improvement school” and involves “the test / to see if we have been listening / to the instructor.” During a break, Bukowski naturally goes to get a beer, and later discovers he’s the only person to have gotten all the test questions right, making him, the poem wryly concludes, “the class / intellectual.” But why is he in the class? Because he was driving around drunk. Did he hurt anyone? Did he kill anyone? This is one of several times in “On Drinking” that Bukowski talks about plowing around hammered in a car, yet every episode carefully avoids any sense of the possible horrific consequences for other people and returns us instead to the comfortable presence of that charming rogue, Charles Bukowski. He’s so funny, so honest. You want to hang out with him, maybe have a few cold ones.
But this artfully contrived camaraderie is fragile. When a writer focuses more on forming a community with his readers than conveying the fact of an experience, he can be left high and dry when the assumptions undergirding that community change. People think about drunken driving much differently in 2019 than in 1981, when “night school” was published. They also think differently about gender — and the women in “On Drinking” only occasionally get names, although they do sometimes get ages. In a poem titled “who in the hell is Tom Jones?,” we’re told that Bukowski was “shacked / with a 24-year-old / girl from New York / City” when suddenly “this 34-year-old / woman / arrived,” after which there was naturally a “whirling of wildcats” that is delightful to Bukowski, because “it’s not often at the / age of 55 / that such splendid / action occurs.” Readers in 2019 may well be blinded by the force of their eye roll.
What is strangest about “On Drinking,” though, is its lack of strangeness. Bukowski wasn’t a casual drinker, he was a lifelong alcoholic. And addiction is bizarre, though perhaps a better word would be “grotesque” in its original sense (“of a cave”), in that addiction plunges people into a subterranean space that separates them not only from their friends and family, but from their ability to feel family as family, rather than as vehicles for the fulfillment of a craving. This is not “awfully nice,” and there is no real sense of it in “On Drinking”; rather we get a parade of small evasions and tall tales: “I swung right to miss hitting the curb / and found myself driving straight into traffic / … the first car to go past me / (in the opposite direction) / was a police car / and for some reason I / waved at the officer.” Bukowski unquestionably lived a life much darker and hungrier and more desperate than that of most writers. But in his writing he paused at the black threshold and backed away. He was probably wise.
ISLAMABAD — Two Pakistani Hindu sisters whose parents said they were kidnapped and forced to change their religion to marry Muslims had converted voluntarily, a court ruled on Thursday, in a case that has attracted attention in Hindu-majority India. 
The court had ordered the government to take custody of the sisters, both teenagers, in late March after accusations spread on social media that they had been forced to convert to Islam. 
Another video showed the sisters saying they had married two Muslim men and converted to Islam of their own free will.
The court said the two were adult enough to make their own decisions and that they were not forced to convert. 
Police say the teenagers left their home in Pakistan's southern province of Sindh on March 20 to be married in Punjab province, where the law does not bar marriages of those younger than 18, unlike Sindh.
The police detained ten people in the case and registered a formal case of kidnapping and robbery on complaints from the girls' parents.
The incident prompted a rare public intervention by a top Indian official in its neighbor's domestic affairs, when Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj said on Twitter she had asked India's ambassador in Pakistan for a report.
Pakistan was "totally behind the girls", Information Minister Fawad Chaudhry said on social media in response to Swaraj's message, but asked India to look after its own minority Muslims.
 (Reporting by Asif Shahzad; Editing by Nick Macfie)
JACKSON, Miss. — Somebody slowed the police's roll: Thieves keep stealing the wheels off of the patrol cars in Mississippi's capital city.
Jackson police spokesman Sgt. Roderick Holmes tells local news outlets that three police cars were towed Saturday after police discovered their wheels had been stolen. The cars had been parked behind a police museum in downtown Jackson. Holmes says police aren't sure when the wheels were taken.
It's the second time thieves have taken wheels from a Jackson patrol car in recent weeks. A car was left on blocks outside the police training academy in March in west Jackson after thieves stole tires and rims.
Holmes says police continue to investigate the thefts.
The thieves and the stolen wheels remain at large.
MOSCOW — A Russian court released U.S. investor Michael Calvey on Thursday after two months in jail and placed him under house arrest until Saturday, softening his treatment in a fraud case that has rattled investors.
It was not immediately clear what would happen after Saturday. 
Calvey, founder of the Baring Vostok private equity group, was detained in February pending a trial on embezzlement charges that he denies and that he says are being used to pressure him in a corporate dispute over control of a Russian bank. 
"Despite this corporate conflict that has led to criminal prosecution, I would like to underline what I have always said: I continue to believe in Russia's investment potential," Calvey said from a glass cage in the court.
Several prominent officials and businessmen had lobbied for the release of Calvey and other Baring Vostok executives detained with him, and had called their pre-trial incarceration unduly harsh. 
Senior pro-business figures in Russia's establishment say the case has had a chilling effect on the business climate that is already under pressure from Western sanctions, sluggish economic growth and rouble volatility. 
Thursday's ruling was made at the request of investigators who in a U-turn on Wednesday asked for Calvey and another detained suspect, Alexey Kordichev, to be moved to house arrest. They had until then sought for the suspects to be held in custody and brought the charges against Calvey in the first place.
Prosecutors told the court they were happy for Calvey to be released from custody as he had three children, as well as property in Russia, and that several prominent businessmen had publicly vouched for him. 
After prosecutors changed their stance, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and Kirill Dmitriev, head of Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said they welcomed the move.
Baring Vostok, one of Russia's oldest private equity groups, said it hoped that similar steps would also be made to release the fund's other detained executives. 
Baring Vostok partners Vagan Abgaryan and Philippe Delpal as well as investment director Ivan Zyuzin are still in detention.
 (Reporting by Gabrielle Tétrault-Farber; Writing by Tom Balmforth; Editing by Christian Lowe/Mark Heinrich)
More than three months after an election that might have been tainted by fraud — and more than six weeks after the new Congress convened without a representative from North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District — state regulators are scheduled to meet on Monday to consider evidence of possible misconduct.
The hearing, which could prompt the State Board of Elections to order a new vote in the district, may last until Wednesday and could include dozens of witnesses. Congress, which has the constitutional authority to determine its membership, will be watching closely.
Here’s a guide to where things stand ahead of Monday’s hearing.
The midterms — at least in the Ninth District, which includes part of Charlotte and a vast, rural swath of southeastern North Carolina — have not ended, and a House seat that Republicans have held since 1963 is still at stake.
At first, it seemed that the Republicans’ grip on the seat would continue: Mark Harris, the Republican nominee, took a 905-vote lead over his Democratic rival, Dan McCready. But state officials refused to certify Mr. Harris as the victor because of concerns about election fraud and, in particular, the conduct of L. McCrae Dowless Jr., a contractor for the Harris campaign.
The principal concern involves absentee ballot harvesting — when a ballot is collected and mailed by someone who is not the voter or, in some instances, a close relative — and how Mr. Dowless and his associates may have relied on the tactic during their work for Mr. Harris. Although ballot harvesting is allowed in some states, it is illegal in North Carolina.
Allegations have also been raised about absentee ballot tampering and that elections officials in Bladen County, where absentee-by-mail statistics helped stir suspicions about fraud, may have aided Mr. Dowless.
A prolific political operative in Bladen County, Mr. Dowless has long been a go-to contractor for Democratic and Republican candidates, especially in state and local races. He has also run for, and won, elected office himself, and his party loyalties have sometimes shifted. Over almost 15 years, according to state records, Mr. Dowless has gone from being a registered Democrat to unaffiliated to Democrat to unaffiliated to Republican.
He has a criminal record that includes convictions for perjury and insurance fraud, and he previously drew scrutiny, but not prosecution, for his political work. Mr. Harris acknowledged in December that, despite Mr. Dowless’s controversial history, he had directed his hiring as a contractor. But Mr. Harris maintained that he “had no reason to think that what he was doing was illegal.”
Mr. Dowless declined repeated requests for an interview with The New York Times and, through his lawyer, also refused to meet with state investigators. He could speak this week, though: Both the Harris and McCready campaigns identified him as a possible witness for the evidentiary hearing. He has not been charged with wrongdoing in connection to the 2018 election.
North Carolina law gives the elections board the power to order a new vote if it finds that “irregularities or improprieties occurred to such an extent that they taint the results of the entire election and cast doubt on its fairness.”
But there is no firm guideline for when a disputed election meets that threshold. The state board has five members — three Democrats and two Republicans — and it takes four members to call a new election.
His position, like his opponent’s, is about what you would expect.
Mr. Harris’s campaign, in a brief to the elections board, argued that the state should certify the Republican nominee as the winner and that a new election would not be appropriate.
“Because the voter’s intent is key, any alleged ballot harvesting, standing alone, does not weigh in favor of a new election,” Mr. Harris’s lawyers wrote. “To be sure, absentee-by-mail ballot harvesting is illegal, and it should be referred to prosecutors for appropriate action.”
“But illegality in transmission is not necessarily indicative of invalidity of substance,” the campaign added. “Without evidence to show that the contents of ballots sufficient in number to change the outcome of the election were tampered with, any illegality in how they were delivered should be immaterial to the Board’s decision making.”
In its own brief to the elections board, Mr. McCready’s campaign called for a new vote and accused Mr. Harris’s campaign of hiring Mr. Dowless because of his “proven history of generating a strikingly high, and downright suspicious, share of absentee-by-mail votes.”
“Though the full scope of fraudulent activity may never be known, the record makes clear that the results of the entire election are tainted, and its fairness is in doubt,” the McCready campaign wrote. “Moreover, the Harris campaign should have known it was benefiting from fraud, and there is strong evidence that they did know and that local election officials aided the scheme.”
Maybe, but they will not be heard or adjudicated during this week’s elections board proceedings. The board can send any findings to prosecutors, some of whom have already been investigating irregularities, for possible charges.
No. Representative Robert M. Pittenger, who lost a Republican primary to Mr. Harris last May, left power when the new Congress took office in early January, and the Ninth District’s seat has been empty ever since. Although no House vote this year has been close enough that a single member’s decision would have changed the outcome, the Ninth has been without representation as dozens of matters have gone before the House.
Under the Constitution, the House is “the judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its own members,” and Congress could eventually determine that November’s balloting was compromised.
A formal refusal by Congress to seat a prospective member from the Ninth District would lead to a new election, but it is unclear whether the House would take such a step if the state elections board certified a winner.
COPENHAGEN — Accountant EY's audit of scandal-hit Danske Bank came under scrutiny on Friday as Danish authorities asked the state prosecutor for financial fraud to investigate the matter.
Danske Bank is under investigation in the United States, Denmark, Estonia, France and Britain over payments from Russia, ex-Soviet states and elsewhere. It has admitted that 200 billion euros ($226 billion) of suspicious transactions flowed through its Estonian branch between 2007 and 2015.
"In connection with the audit of Danske Bank's financial statements for 2014, EY became aware of information that should have prompted it to carry out further investigations and notified the Money Laundering Secretariat," the Danish Business Authority (DBA) said on Friday.
It did not give any further detail. 
The DBA had in October launched an investigation into the external audit of Danske Bank's financial statements for 2014, as well as the auditor's duties in relation to suspected money laundering up until 2015.
The years named reflect the fact that 2014 is the furthest back money laundering can be punished under legislation that was in place until recent tightening by Danish lawmakers.
EY, which was external auditor for Danske Bank until Deloitte took over the job in 2015, said it was cooperating with the authorities.
"EY Denmark has reported as required by the then-applicable regulation and we will fully cooperate with the State Prosecutor," it said. 
Danish and Estonian authorities have been heavily criticized for reacting too slowly and inadequately to the scandal that has also spread to other banks such as Deutsche Bank and Swedbank.
The head of the fraud squad, Morten Jacobsen, told Reuters the squad had received the report from the business authority and would look thoroughly into it before deciding whether there was a basis for raising a court case.
 (Reporting by Teis Jensen; Editing by Susan Fenton and David Holmes)
A former nurse accused of raping and impregnating an incapacitated woman under his care last year at a Phoenix nursing home pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to charges of sexual assault and child abuse.
In a brief arraignment hearing, the former nurse, Nathan D. Sutherland, who appeared in an orange jumpsuit, spoke only to provide his name and date of birth. The judge announced that a not guilty plea had been entered by Mr. Sutherland, 36, who was swiftly taken back to the Maricopa County Jail, where he has been held since his arrest on Jan. 23.
The roughly minute-long proceeding was the latest development in a sexual assault case that has shocked the authorities in Arizona, raised questions about the treatment of patients in long-term disability care there and brought intense scrutiny to the nursing home’s operator, Hacienda HealthCare.
The criminal case started to unfold in late December, when a woman at Hacienda who cannot talk or walk unexpectedly gave birth to a boy. Over the following weeks, the investigation became the main focus of the Phoenix Police Department, its chief said, and led to questions about the company’s operations and conduct.
The police said that a DNA sample taken from Mr. Sutherland, a Hacienda nurse assigned to treat the woman, matched that of the newborn.
On Tuesday, Gov. Douglas A. Ducey of Arizona, a Republican, raised the possibility of deploying the state attorney general’s office in a wide-ranging investigation into the company. The governor requested an inquiry into how Hacienda employees did not know that the 29-year-old patient, who has been at the nursing center since 1992, had been raped or notice that she was pregnant, according to a copy of the letter he sent the attorney general, Mark Brnovich.
To the shock of Hacienda staff members, the woman went into labor on Dec. 29 and gave birth. A panicked employee called 911 and reported that no one knew she was pregnant and that the child was in distress, according to audio of the call released by the Phoenix Police Department. The baby boy and the woman were both doing well, the police said last month. The boy is in the custody of the woman’s family.
“Although a suspect in this crime has been apprehended,” Governor Ducey said in the letter, “details continue to emerge regarding the leadership of this entity and its lack of action.”
In addition to investigating the woman’s case, the governor requested a broader investigation into Hacienda’s management, with a focus on possible financial fraud and “violations of Arizona’s civil rights act” in its company culture. Since 2016, the Arizona health agency that manages the state’s Medicaid program has been investigating $3.4 million in possible Medicaid fraud at Hacienda.
The governor’s comment about Hacienda’s culture appeared to refer to sexual harassment allegations against its longtime chief executive, Bill Timmons, that were reported last month by The Arizona Republic and later confirmed by the company. Mr. Timmons abruptly resigned last month, a few days after the police opened an investigation into the woman’s assault.
“One thing is clear though — Arizona cannot tolerate such disregard for its most vulnerable citizens or laws of our state,” Mr. Ducey wrote. “We must continue to exercise intense scrutiny and vigilance to ensure public safety, accountability and justice.”
It was not clear what action Mr. Brnovich’s office planned to take in response to the governor’s letter. A spokeswoman for the attorney general did not respond to a request for comment.
Since the assault case was made public, Hacienda officials have pledged to cooperate with local and state investigators, as well as work to regain the public’s trust. The company recently hired a former top prosecutor in Maricopa County to conduct its own investigation into the assault. A company spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.
The next court date for Mr. Sutherland, who is being held on $500,000 bail, was scheduled for next month.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
After Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was charged with conspiracy to hack a government computer, a picture emerged of his seven years of hiding in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London.
He lived with his cat in a small corner room, as the world’s most famous self-proclaimed political refugee. He continued to run his internet group, held news conferences and hosted a parade of visitors, including Lady Gaga.
Ultimately, he became an unwanted houseguest. He skateboarded around the halls and played soccer with guests, causing damage to the building. The Ecuadorean president accused him of gaining access to the embassy’s security files without permission and mistreating personnel.
The case: American prosecutors said that, in March 2010, Mr. Assange agreed to help Chelsea Manning crack a password on a Defense Department computer to reach restricted classified government documents and communications. Press freedom advocates were relieved the charge was narrow. Read our explainer about the concerns around press freedoms.
The country’s defense secretary, Lt. Gen. Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf, announced a two-year transition period after the military ousted President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on Thursday, ending his 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.
Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with a genocide in the Darfur region that killed hundreds of thousands of people.
What’s next: Protesters’ jubilation has been tempered by uncertainty about the future. The military dissolved the government and suspended the Constitution. A curfew between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. is in effect. The defense minister who took over had also been accused of perpetrating war crimes and was a confidant of Mr. al-Bashir.
Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir has long promoted a folksy image at home that was a jarring contrast with his image in the West, where he was seen as a heartless warmonger and as a coddler of terrorists like Osama bin Laden.
The SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket lifted off for a second time, improving on its first test launch last year. 
It carried a Saudi Arabian communications satellite that will relay television, internet and mobile phone signals to the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Watch the video of the blastoff and landing of the most powerful rocket in operation.
Next flight: One more Falcon Heavy flight is scheduled for this year — a mission for the U.S. Air Force carrying 25 small satellites.
In other space news: For 340 days, the astronaut Scott Kelly gathered data about himself while aboard the International Space Station. On Earth, his brother completed the same tests. They offered a comparison of what happens to the human body in space. 
Some changes in his body — including genetic mutations and, after his return, declines in cognitive test scores — did not correct themselves, provoking concern among scientists.
As companies and governments gain new powers to follow people across the internet and around the world, The Times is embarking on a monthslong privacy project to explore the technology and where it’s taking us. 
“It seems like a good moment to pause and consider the choices we’ve already made, and the ones that lie ahead,” the editor of our editorial page explains in an introduction.
Our publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, says The Times is examining its own data collection, too.
Where would you draw the line? Take our survey about what you think should be private. We are also collecting stories of how lives have been altered by this sharing of information, whether by our own choice or by theft.
Indians have at times seemed fond of kicking their leaders to the curb. Prime ministers serve without term limits, but only seven have made it through a single full term. Does that mean voters are fickle?
Not according to Prannoy Roy, co-founder of India’s NDTV news channel and one of the country’s most respected poll analysts. He chalks it up to something else: increasing maturity.
“In the first 25 years, governments and prime ministers used to be re-elected quite frequently,” he said in a phone interview. Voters were at the time buoyed by post-independence optimism.
But over time they became less starry-eyed and began going against ruling parties at national and state levels more than 70 percent of the time, said Mr. Roy, co-author of “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”
The earlier years after India gained independence in 1947 were marred by slow growth and corruption, and angry voters started throwing out almost everyone in power.
Today, though, that anger has tempered and voters “are much more discerning,” Mr. Roy said. They are looking for politicians who deliver real, on-the-ground results.
And that, he said, is a sign of “a vibrant, working democracy.” — Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Send us your feedback or questions on this series here.
Russia: Lawmakers approved a bill that some worry will open the door to sweeping censorship. The legislation is designed to route web traffic through filters controlled by the state communications watchdog. It also provides for an independent Russian internet that could function even if cut off from the global web.
Vatican: Pope Benedict XVI, who declared he would remain “hidden to the world” in retirement, put the blame for the clerical sexual abuse crisis on the sexual revolution of the 1960s, liberal theology and the disappearance of God from public discourse in the West.
Brexit: Prime Minister Theresa May prepared for backlash after accepting a second delay to Britain’s departure from the European Union. But what exhausted lawmakers really want is a vacation. 
Germany: An artist who built a replica Holocaust memorial next to the home of a far-right politician was the subject of a 16-month criminal inquiry. Prominent figures want to know why.
Snapshot: The very good dog above, Cactus, has been running alongside humans in the Marathon des Sables, a 140.7-mile race through the Sahara in southern Morocco. “That dog was a beast,” one envious runner said. “He ran right past me and I couldn’t keep up.”
Women in science: Capturing the first image of a black hole was an effort that required more than 200 researchers. About 40 of them were women, and one, Katie Bouman, became a face for the massive project when she posted a picture of herself celebrating the effort.
What we’re reading: This excoriating essay in The Atlantic. “The writer, Caitlin Flanagan, was once an unhappy college counselor at a private school in Los Angeles,” says Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel. “She’s uniquely equipped to dissect the parental behavior in the college cheating scandal. Entitlement doesn’t even begin to cover what she finds in the court documents.”
Cook: Have a birthday coming up? No? This rainbow sprinkle cake doesn’t need an occasion.
Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.
Listen: George Crumb, one of the most beloved voices in contemporary music, turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but if you can’t make those, we’ve included a Spotify playlist of his compositions.
Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world, from the Arctic to Australia. It’s one of eight new books we recommend this week.
Smarter Living: Your environmental impact extends out your front door. Even if you don’t share the American passion for care-intensive grassy lawns, there are ways to go greener. Try low-maintenance ground cover and plants native to your area — but take care to avoid invasive ones. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead.
And we have guidance on how to go paperless on tax records — securely. 
Want to go to a party tonight? You could say yes, but you could also say “Poyekhali!” (poe-YEK-hoe-lee). That’s “Let’s go!” in Russian.
That’s what the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin radioed to controllers during liftoff for the world’s first manned spaceflight, 58 years ago today. The term will be bandied around the world this evening, in Yuri’s Night celebrations.
The Soviet Union commemorated the flight by establishing Cosmonautics Day, which has been celebrated since with parades and space-themed events.
The hipper Yuri’s Night began in the U.S. in 2000, with raves and parties for scientists. It caught on. The crew of the International Space Station sometimes sends greetings.
Parties are planned on (at least) five continents, including at a research station in Antarctica.
Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, a writer, public speaker and spaceflight proponent who founded Yuri’s Night with her husband, urges partyers to “have a beer with a rocket scientist.”
The man the F.B.I. said Thursday was the “traveling bandit” responsible for a string of seven bank robberies in six states was not even supposed to leave Kentucky, his home state.
The suspect, Jason Lee Robinson, of Pikeville, Ky., was released from federal prison in November and had been instructed by his parole officer not to leave the state, according to an affidavit. But the authorities maintain he traveled quite widely, logging over 3,000 miles as he carried out at least seven robberies in three weeks.
He was arrested in the small city of Fruita, Colo., on Thursday and charged with robbing a Capital Bank in Aventura, Fla., a well-to-do suburb about 20 minutes north of Miami, on Dec. 28 — the first in a string of heists the F.B.I. said ended Jan. 17.
According to the affidavit, Mr. Robinson entered the bank, which sits among luxury condos, an upscale mall and yacht clubs, at about 3:30 p.m. that day. He passed a teller a note demanding money and indicating that he was armed. The teller handed the suspect about $1,900, which he quickly grabbed and fled. The teller then pressed the bank’s silent security alarm.
Footage from nearby surveillance cameras showed that the suspect ran to an alley behind a Kosher Kingdom supermarket, where he placed something in his pocket and removed a dark blue sweatshirt emblazoned with the phrase “Straight Outta Dallas.”
Once the suspect’s arms were exposed, the cameras also recorded images of his tattoos, from the bicep to the wrist, which investigators said match Mr. Robinson’s. The sweatshirt was recovered by investigators and sent to a forensics laboratory.
Surveillance cameras also captured the suspect’s movements before the robbery, when he entered a nearby Mercantil Bank and spoke with a bank employee. The employee told investigators the man had a “country” accent and said he was from Kentucky.
From Florida, the F.B.I. says, Mr. Robinson headed north, striking a bank in Asheville, N.C., five days later. He went on to rob banks in Tennessee, Alabama, Illinois and Utah, the authorities said. He has yet to be charged in those robberies.
The F.B.I. identified Mr. Robinson as a potential suspect after reviewing the records of recently released federal prison inmates who matched the robber’s physical description. Mr. Robinson had been convicted on federal charges in Kentucky in 2009, and he was on supervised release as of November, according to the affidavit. (The F.B.I. said that he was 49; Bureau of Prisons records for a man with the same name who was released in November indicate that he is 39.)
His probation officer told investigators he was not home when she tried to visit him on Jan. 18. His family said that they had last seen him on Jan. 10, and that he was driving a cream-colored 2006 Ford Explorer, which was consistent with the vehicle seen in surveillance footage after the robberies in Alabama and Utah, the document states.
Mr. Robinson was also identified by his ex-wife, who called the F.B.I. after she recognized his picture in a “Wanted” poster distributed to news outlets around the country. The call was made in January, according to the affidavit, but a spokesman would not say on what day.
Mr. Robinson was being held in Colorado and was due back in court on Tuesday, according to a spokeswoman for the United States attorney in the Southern District of Florida. Information about whether Mr. Robinson has a lawyer was not immediately available.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
A new strategy for Brexit, the resignation of the Algerian president and a challenge to Turkish election results. Here’s the latest: 
Prime Minister Theresa May said that she would work with the opposition Labour Party on a joint plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., and that she would seek a second delay. 
The move is likely to mean a softer Brexit — perhaps compromising Mrs. May’s longstanding demand to exit the customs union with the bloc — and it could be a major strategy pivot for Mrs. May, whose own plan has been rejected three times. 
“This basically rips up the last two and a half years as far as her stance goes,” a politics professor said. 
Reaction: The hard-line pro-Brexit members of the prime minister’s Conservative Party quickly voiced their disappointment. Cabinet members said they had discussed the option of calling a general election on the final plan, but polling suggested the party might fare poorly. 
Will this work? It’s unclear how the compromise will come together, and whether the E.U. will approve the delay request. Negotiating an agreement with Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, will be an obstacle. 
Unwelcome distraction: Some lawmakers struggled to focus on the Brexit debate as climate protesters stripped nearly naked in the House of Commons. 
The president of Algeria has submitted his resignation following the largest antigovernment protests in decades.
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika bowed to pressure from protesters and the army and abruptly ended his rule of 20 years, according to the state news agency. Mr. Bouteflika has not addressed the public in seven years, since a stroke left him paralyzed.
Lead-up: Algeria’s army chief of staff, who is the traditional arbiter of political life in the country, had called for an “immediate” declaration that Mr. Bouteflika was unfit for office. It was enough to force him out. 
Who replaces him? There are currently no plans for Mr. Bouteflika’s replacement. But protesters called for the wholesale removal of what they called “the system” — everyone associated with his reign. 
Impact: Algeria is one of the world’s major oil and gas producers and is considered a bulwark against Islamist terrorism.
The party of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has lost control of Turkey’s two largest cities, Istanbul and Ankara, according to a complete tally of local election ballots on Tuesday. 
The governing Justice and Development Party will challenge those results, and Turkey’s High Election Council will rule on those challenges within eight days. 
Details: The party said it was lodging objections based on discrepancies between voting tallies at polling stations and the counting centers in both Ankara and Istanbul.
In Opinion: Selim Koru looks at whether Erdogan’s populism has reached its limit. He writes: “Mr. Erdogan’s style of politics demands that he either crank up the intensity, or collapse under the weight of its own contradictions.”
About two million people in Mozambique have been displaced, cholera has broken out and malaria is expected in the aftermath of Cyclone Idai. 
The Mozambique government said Tuesday that it had recorded more than 1,000 cases of cholera, including one death. Aid officials privately called that an underestimate, saying that treatment centers are seeing hundreds of cases each day. 
Positive signs: Nearly 900,000 doses of cholera vaccine arrived on Tuesday, and a vaccination campaign is to start today.
Effects of cholera: The disease drains the body of fluids and electrolytes. If cholera victims reach help in time, they can almost always be saved with rapid rehydration and one dose of an antibiotic.
Other risks: Standing water, where mosquitoes lay their eggs, is everywhere. Millions are hatching, and experts fear a major malaria outbreak in the coming weeks. Measles is another looming threat.
Venezuela: A pro-government lawmaking body installed by President Nicolás Maduro voted to strip the opposition leader Juan Guaidó of immunity, paving the way for his potential arrest. 
Philippines: The government has been ordered by the country’s top court to submit police reports relating to thousands of deaths in President Rodrigo Duterte’s drug war. 
Canada: A proposed Quebec law to bar public-sector employees in positions of authority from wearing religious symbols has set off a backlash. An elementary schoolteacher who wears a head scarf and aspires to become a principal said: “What right does the Quebec government have to stop my career?”
China: A woman from China carrying a malware-infected thumb drive was arrested after entering Mar-a-Lago over the weekend during President Trump’s visit. 
Boeing: Government officials, aviation experts and company executives described a climate of distrust and lack of communication after the crash of a Lion Air 737 Max 8 jet in Indonesia in October, making it difficult to share information about what went wrong. 
Climate: More than 40 governments have adopted a price on carbon dioxide emissions, but many of the programs are still too weak to drive truly deep cuts in emissions. We took a look at the different ways the system is used. 
Italy: A whale was found dead in Sardinia with 48 pounds of plastic in its body, the latest in a grim international collection of whale carcasses burdened by dozens of pounds of plastic trash. 
Jewel heist: The Italian police have recovered precious jewels that were stolen six years ago from the National Etruscan Museum of Villa Giulia in Rome. But investigators still wonder who was behind the audacious theft.
Fashion: Leggings might be the future, our chief fashion critic writes. She examines why the clothing item gets people so riled up. 
How to be famous online: According to Rickey Thompson, a 23-year-old Instagram influencer, you should be relatable, avoid overthinking your posts and give people what they want. Ultimately, “you will be loved for being yourself.”
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: A midweek pasta dinner relies on no-fuss ingredients, including roasted broccoli, almonds and anchovies.
Apple and Google are adding tools to help you track and control the time you spend on your device.
Experts say adults and children alike can benefit from avoiding the hormone disrupters in many highly processed foods; plastics marked 3, 6 or 7; and chemical-based cleaning products.
Political scandals engulfed the Virginia Statehouse months ago.
The Virginian-Pilot has been among the regional papers covering the scandals and their aftermath closely. It was the first to confirm a report that Gov. Ralph Northam’s medical school yearbook page included a photo of a man in blackface with another in a Ku Klux Klan robe.
The Pilot is the product of local newspaper mergers that began just after the Civil War. It first published under its current name in 1898, and was acquired by Tronc, the former Tribune Co., in 2018. (The company has since changed its name to Tribune Publishing.) Based in southeastern Virginia, The Pilot’s coverage bleeds into North Carolina, with a limited paywall.
The Pilot earned a Pulitzer Prize in 1929 for one of a series of editorials on the evils of lynching and on legislation to prevent it; another in 1960 for editorials on Virginian officials’ stonewalling of integration and a third in 1985 for reporting on local corruption.
Last year, The Pilot was a finalist for the Pulitzer in investigative reporting, for documenting injustices in Virginia’s parole system. Who knows what 2019 might bring?
James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
Rocked by a diesel-emission scandal, Volkswagen has been working to win back the trust of American consumers in recent years.
Now the German company’s reputation in the United States may suffer another blow, albeit on a smaller scale.
A lawsuit filed by three car buyers last month in Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., accused the company of defrauding customers by selling early prototypes not certified for sale by regulators. The suit contends that the company concealed that information from dealers and customers. The case is based in part on internal emails that the plaintiffs claim show Volkswagen officials knowingly passed the cars on to dealers as “certified pre-owned” vehicles when the vehicles should have been destroyed or exported.
Ricardo Garcia, one of the car buyers, said he thought he was getting a deal when he paid $39,000 — about $1,500 below the sticker price — for a 2016 Golf R hatchback that had been driven just 9,430 miles. What he didn’t know was that the car had been used for months as a test vehicle by Volkswagen employees and automotive journalists. It also had modifications that did not meet United States safety standards.
“I paid more for it than I should have, and now I can’t even drive it legally,” said Mr. Garcia, a project manager for an air-conditioning company in Seattle.
Volkswagen has acknowledged improperly selling preproduction, or what the industry calls “zero series,” cars. Last year, it recalled 252 such vehicles, including Mr. Garcia’s Golf, that were sold to Americans.
“We issued the recall not because of any identified defect but out of an abundance of caution,” the company said in a statement on Friday. Volkswagen said it was reviewing the lawsuit, which it said contained “numerous factual misrepresentations.
The company issued a similar recall in Germany in December and acknowledged selling at least 6,700 preproduction cars between 2006 and 2018.
The lawsuit asserts that the company sold thousands of such cars in the United States between 2011 and 2016, when it appears to have ended the practice as the diesel scandal cast a public spotlight on its business practices.
As part of its American recall, Volkswagen has offered to buy the 252 cars back at their current book value. Mr. Garcia said the company had offered him $27,000. He declined, he said, because that was well below the price he had paid, and did not cover expenses like sales tax and interest on his loan.
“I’m not going to eat $20,000 that I shouldn’t have paid,” he said.
The lawsuit is another setback to efforts by Volkswagen and its luxury Audi division to put the diesel ordeal behind them. Last year, the two brands sold 577,000 vehicles in the United States, the most since 2012.
Karl Brauer, executive publisher at Cox Automotive, said the lawsuit was an embarrassing revelation but should not have a big impact on sales. “I don’t see it as a huge, long-term image destroyer,” he said.
Volkswagen’s American sales tumbled in 2015 after the company acknowledged that it had installed software that allowed some of its diesel cars to cheat on emissions tests. The company later pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud and other charges brought by the Justice Department. It paid about $23 billion in fines and civil settlements to diesel owners, and was required to buy back 600,000 vehicles from American customers.
Several Volkswagen executives have been charged or have pleaded guilty to criminal charges in the United States and Germany. The scandal resulted in the ouster of Volkswagen’s chief executive and two dozen other executives. A former chief executive of Audi was arrested last year and is awaiting trial on criminal charges in Germany.
Fallout from that scandal continues. Last month, the Securities and Exchange Commission sued Volkswagen, saying its chief executive knew about the emissions fraud years earlier than the company has admitted.
Automakers typically produce 100 to 400 prototypes when introducing a model. They are lent to critics, driven by corporate executives and displayed at auto shows. Companies often make software upgrades, change parts and make other tweaks before beginning mass production.
Volkswagen imported most of its preproduction cars from Germany or Mexico, said Michael J. Melkersen, the lawyer who filed the lawsuit on behalf of Mr. Garcia and two other consumers.
Once such prototype cars stop being used, they must be destroyed or exported within 30 days. But service records from dealers indicate that Volkswagen used some of these cars for months and then titled and sold them as used cars at dealer auctions.
Mr. Garcia’s car, for example, was lent to a journalist who planned to drive the car on racetracks and public roads in the spring of 2015, Mr. Melkersen said. A Carfax report shows Volkswagen first registered the car on Dec. 16 that year.
Mr. Garcia bought the car a few months later and drove it for nearly two years until Volkswagen sent him a recall letter in October saying his Golf was a “very early production” model and may not “comply with all applicable regulatory requirements.” The company did not specify which regulations the car did not comply with, saying it had not kept a complete record of the changes it made to the prototype.
Paul Jacobson, another plaintiff in the case, received a similar letter regarding a 2015 CC R-Line sedan that he bought in March 2016. He paid $24,018 for the car, which had 5,320 miles on the odometer. Volkswagen has offered Mr. Jacobson, a public relations consultant in Morrison, Colo., $13,300 for the CC.
Although he said the CC “is a blast” to drive, he’s concerned about keeping it. “It’s not legal, so I can’t sell it,” he said. “If there’s an accident, my insurance might not cover it, because it’s not supposed to be on the road.”
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — An Alaska man who stole a fossilized woolly mammoth tusk and sliced it into pieces for resale will serve nearly three years in federal prison.
U.S. District Judge Sharon Gleason on Thursday sentenced Martin Elze, 52, to 33 months for the theft of the 5.5 foot (1.7 meters) tusk from a small Bureau of Land Management museum in Anchorage. Gleason also ordered Elze to pay $8,385.82 in restitution to the Campbell Creek Science Center.
Elze in December pleaded guilty to one count of removal of a paleontological resource. An accomplice, Gary Lynn Boyd, pleaded guilty in January and will be sentenced May 15.
The woolly mammoth is Alaska's official state fossil. The intact tusk was worth $7,000 to $9,000, according to federal prosecutors. Artists carve pieces for jewelry or small sculptures.
The tusk was displayed at the BLM's Campbell Creek Science Center, a popular destination for Anchorage schoolchildren, and visitors could touch the tusk.
Pat Druckenmiller, director of the University of Alaska Museum of the North, said after the theft that mammoths generally died out at the end of the Pleistocene Era 11,000 to 12,000 years ago. A few survived on islands such as Wrangel Island off northeast Siberia until about 4,000 years ago, he said.
The stolen tusk was one of several found in the mid-1980s near the Colville River, which flows into the Arctic Ocean north of the Brooks Range.
The curved tusk was mottled dark- and light-brown, about 8 inches (20 centimeters) in diameter on the large end and 6 inches (15 centimeters) in diameter at the narrow end.
Elze and Boyd on March 17, 2018, visited the small museum and asked staff about the tusk's weight and authenticity, prosecutors said. One night later, they returned. Boyd used a rock to break a window and open a door, causing $1,385.22 in damage.
The museum's video surveillance system recorded the theft.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
The British Parliament attempts to shape the future of Brexit, the Trump administration prepares for trade talks with China, and Singapore addresses a sensitive data leak. Here’s the latest: 
The British Parliament is expected to vote today on a number of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan that could end up shaping how the country departs from the E.U.
How it works: Various lawmakers, including those in opposition parties, have proposed more than a dozen changes to the wording of Mrs. May’s exit plan. Only the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, can decide which will be voted on. The voting is for the most part not binding, but Mrs. May will be under political pressure to adopt popular measures.
What are the amendments? There is a broad range. The most hyped is intended to make it more difficult for Britain to leave the E.U. without a deal. It suggests that if a plan hasn’t been approved by the end of February, Parliament should get a chance to vote on delaying Brexit.
What does it all mean? At the very least, the competing proposals should give Parliament a better idea of the kind of Brexit that would get broad support and perhaps even carve out a path forward.
President Trump, bruised from his fight with congressional Democrats over border security, has an even more formidable negotiating task ahead of him: trade talks with Beijing.
Starting on Wednesday, a Chinese delegation led by Liu He, the vice premier, will meet with an American delegation led by Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. They’re kicking off a monthlong sprint of negotiations.
What’s at stake? If the two sides cannot reach a trade agreement by March 2, the United States plans to escalate the trade war with tariffs on an additional $200 billion of Chinese imports. China has indicated it will similarly retaliate.
Analysis: Trump administration officials claim they have the upper hand as China’s economy begins to buckle under U.S. tariffs. But Mr. Trump may have lost some of that leverage. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that the five-week partial government shutdown cost the economy $11 billion, nearly a quarter of which is permanently lost.
Go deeper: Apple, like many other companies that rely heavily on China to assemble its products, would face significant financial pressure if the trade war escalated and would find it increasingly difficult to move its manufacturing elsewhere. A tiny screw demonstrates why.
The medical records and personal information for 14,200 H.I.V.-positive people were stolen by an American and illegally disclosed online, officials said, in the second major data breach of the country’s public health system in two years.
Details: The American, Mikhy Farrera Brochez, lived on an employment pass in Singapore from January 2008 to June 2016, when he was jailed. In 2017, he was convicted of “numerous fraud and drug-related offenses” — including lying to labor officials about his H.I.V. status, providing false information to the police and using forged degree certificates in job applications. He has been deported and his whereabouts was not disclosed.
Why it matters: Half of H.I.V. cases reported in Singapore every year are transmitted through same-sex intercourse, which is illegal there, so the breach is especially sensitive. The country also doesn’t grant employment passes to H.I.V.-positive foreigners.
Officials from both parties agreed in principle to the outlines of a preliminary peace deal, the chief U.S. negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, told our reporter in Kabul. The agreement is the biggest tangible step toward ending the 17-year conflict.
Mr. Khalilzad returned to Afghanistan to brief the government after six days of talks with the Taliban delegation in Doha, Qatar.
Details: U.S. negotiators said the deal would include a guarantee from the Taliban to prevent Afghan territory from turning into a terrorist hub. The withdrawal of American troops was contingent on larger concessions from the Taliban, including a cease-fire and to talk directly with the Afghan government — measures the insurgent group has doggedly opposed in the past.
Go deeper: Here’s a refresher on the Afghan war. And here’s how it stacks up against other conflicts, including the Vietnam War, the Battle of Gettysburg and Hiroshima.
Another angle: The possibility of a peace deal has inspired waves of enthusiasm and hope among many Afghans. But for women, it could mean a new horror story.
Carlos Ghosn: American stock regulators are now also scrutinizing the former Nissan chairman. He has been denied bail and remains consigned to a small jail cell in Tokyo, where the justice system gives prosecutors immense power.
China: A human rights lawyer, Wang Quanzhang, was sentenced to four and a half years in prison for “subversion of state power,” a charge usually applied to critics of the Communist Party. Mr. Wang was the last to be prosecuted among hundreds of legal activists rounded up in the government’s broad crackdown in 2015.
Sickle-cell disease: A cure for the inherited condition, which mainly afflicts people of African descent, seems possible after some experimental gene therapy trials eradicated symptoms.
Duke University: A dean apologized to international students after a professor advised against speaking Chinese on campus in an email that drew widespread criticism. The professor was also asked to step down from her role as a director of graduate studies in the medical school.
Nepal: The captain of a Bangladeshi airplane that crashed in Kathmandu last year, killing 51 people, appeared to have experienced an “emotional breakdown” during the flight, an investigating committee reported.
A swastika in Thailand: A 19-year-old Thai singer wore a T-shirt with the Nazi iconography to a performance, prompting a social media outcry and reviving concerns over the lack of awareness of the Holocaust in Asia.
Singapore: Landmarks of Brutalist architecture, which some see as an integral part of the city-state’s identity, are on the verge of being demolished, prompting a debate on what kinds of buildings should be preserved.
Jennifer Aniston: Tabloid magazines have churned out many false reports that the actor is back with her former husband Brad Pitt and having his baby (by one count, she has had some two dozen children since 2013). Our media columnist looks at how readers are drawn to stories they simply want to be true.
What if? A Filipino-American photographer spent 11 years documenting his parents’ hometown, Manila, and contemplating what his own life might have been like had they stayed.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: A classic Italian combination of sausage and peppers becomes an easy dinner with the addition of broccoli and pasta. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)
How to get motivated when you don’t feel like running.
 Five cheap(ish) things to help combat cabin fever.
As the British Parliament prepares to vote on proposed amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Plan B for Brexit, retailers are warning that a no-deal withdrawal from the European Union could lead to higher prices and empty shelves.
And some entrepreneurs are offering survival-themed products, like the Brexit Box. Costing nearly 300 pounds, it includes a water filter, fire-starting gel and 30 days of freeze-dried food.
The fears recall Y2K, the so-called Millennium Bug, which threatened to wreak havoc when computer systems encountered Jan. 1, 2000, a date many had not been programmed to understand.
The world didn’t end, of course. But a Times editorial from Dec. 30, 1999, drew a resonant lesson:
“Even those of us who have not filled the bathtub with emergency water, withdrawn extra cash from the bank and stocked up on food will be entering the new millennium sobered by the awareness that unknown problems of our own making are an enduring part of existence.”
Inyoung Kang, an editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
As the 2020 campaign gets underway, we’ve heard about a Green New Deal, Medicare for all, breaking up Amazon and universal basic income — to name but a few of the ideas raised by Democratic presidential hopefuls. But one issue has been largely absent: foreign policy — the potential use of force, great-power competition and the management of alliances that will be more important during the next presidency than it has been in three decades.
Maybe I missed it, but I haven’t heard any of the Democrats running on the argument that he or she is the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 in the morning. They all seem inclined to let that call go to voice mail. I hope that doesn’t last, because that phone will be ringing. This will be an extraordinarily volatile and confusing time for U.S. foreign policy.
We’re in the post-post-Cold War era — an era when being secretary of state, let alone president, has become a terrible job. (If anyone asks you to become secretary of state, say you had your heart set on secretary of agriculture.) The post-Cold War era had its issues — 9/11, Iraq and Afghanistan, to be sure — but it was in many ways a unipolar belle epoque, in which an American hegemon stifled any serious great-power conflict.
The post-post-Cold War era, which has been slowly unfolding since the early 2000s, requires a president to manage and juggle three huge geopolitical trends — and the interactions between them — all at once.
The first is the resurgence of three big regional powers: Russia, China and Iran. Each is seeking to dominate its home region and is willing to use force for that purpose. This trend is compellingly described in a new book by Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins emeritus professor of U.S. foreign policy, titled “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.”
As Mandelbuam notes, in Europe, Russia has occupied part of Ukraine. In East Asia, China has claimed most of the Western Pacific as its own territory, contrary to international law; has built artificial islands there; and has placed military installations on them. In the Middle East, Iran has trained and funded proxy forces in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen and has pursued nuclear weapons.
“The three have an important motive in common: All are dictatorships trying to generate support among those they rule through aggressive nationalism, at the expense of their neighbors,” Mandelbaum (with whom I co-wrote a book in 2011) remarked to me. 
“The combination of their insecurities and their ambitions has revived political and military competition among the strongest countries in the world. Indeed, the world of 2019 more closely resembles the world of the Cold War than of the 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall.”
If this first trend requires a president who can manage strength — ours and that of Russia, China and Iran — the second trend will require a deft touch at managing weakness. We are going to see more and more weak states — like Venezuela, Libya, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and many in sub-Saharan Africa — either fall apart or hemorrhage lots of their people, because they are unable to manage the stresses from climate change, population explosion, ecosystem breakdowns and the rapid accelerations in globalization and technology.
If you think managing strength is hard, try managing weakness — try attempting to put broken countries back together. It’s hell on wheels. But that will be a big challenge for the next president because the mass migrations of people away from these disorderly and failing states to zones of order, which is what is driving the current U.S. and European border crises, are not going away.
Consider this Washington Post report last week: “The number of people taken into custody along the Mexico border jumped an additional 31 percent last month as an unprecedented mass migration of families from Central America pushes unauthorized crossings to the highest levels in a decade, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection figures.” 
The story added that last month, the busiest February at the border since 2007, authorities detained 76,103 migrants, up from 58,207 in January, and it quoted Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan as saying: “The system is well beyond capacity and remains at a breaking point.”
For the third trend, the next president will have to manage not only rival superpowers and disorder but also super-empowered small groups and individuals, because of how technology acceleration is putting incredibly powerful, cheap, small tools — for cyberwarfare, election hacking and financial hacking — into the hands of small units, vastly expanding their attack surfaces.
These cyber tools are all getting fast, cheap and deep. That is, they can go deeper inside your company, your email, your election, your power grid or your bank account — every single day. This makes them easier to be weaponized by small units (like North Korea) and individuals so they can have outsize impacts through deep fake, deep surveillance, deep cyber theft.
Which brings us back to the thesis of “The Rise and Fall of Peace on Earth.” The resurgent competition between us, China, Russia and Iran means that instead of our having their cooperation “to try to manage state failure and the technological tsunami, the three revisionists are making them worse,” Mandelbaum told me. 
“Russia and Iran took the lead in devastating Syria, producing a flood of refugees that has, among other things, destabilized Europe. And all three have weaponized the new technology, hacking the U.S. and Europe and, in the case of Russia, even interfering with an American election.”
This means there will be even more pressure on the next president to find allies and build alliances to maintain order. Only the U.S. has the ability to organize coalitions to deter Russia, China and Iran, Mandelbaum argues. Only the U.S. has the resources and the experience to lead a global effort to try to cope with state failure. “And since much of the new technology was invented and applied here, the U.S. is in the best position to figure out how to cope with it.”
Among President Trump’s greatest foreign policy weaknesses is his inability to build and maintain alliances. Few other countries want to follow him into battle. 
The winner of the 2020 election, whether Trump or someone else, is going to pay for the way Trump has allowed our traditional alliances to wither and has made the U.S. administration (not people) so unpopular with populations from Canada to Mexico to Europe to Asia to the Middle East that many of their leaders do not feel comfortable standing with our president, even if they are so inclined.
That is not Trump’s only poisoned legacy. The other is that he shows no interest in democracy promotion, and that, too, is more important than ever, because democracies are much less prone to war. But we’re in a democracy recession now. Leaders from China to Egypt to Uganda to Turkey are all making themselves presidents for life.
“The principal disturbers of the peace — Russia, China, and Iran — are all dictatorships that seek popular support, can no longer get it through economic growth, don’t have the option of getting it through democracy, and in fact fear that democratic demands and democratic forces will unseat them,” Mandelbaum said. “Their aggressive policies are designed to protect their regimes against, most of all, democracy.”
So hold onto your hats: Great-power conflict is in, but U.S. democracy promotion is out. We need allies more than ever, and we have fewer than ever. And some guy in Moldova with a cellphone and a few cyber tools can now shut off the power grid in Montana.
No wonder no one wants to boast being the best person to answer the White House crisis line at 3 a.m. They all prefer to let it ring and hope that it’s a wrong number.
SHANGHAI — Volkswagen's Chief Executive Herbert Diess said he was not among the Volkswagen executives being probed for fraud and breach of fiduciary trust after German prosecutors on Monday sought to press criminal charges against his predecessor. 
"I am not among the accused. I do not expect to be charged," Diess said on the sidelines of a Volkswagen event at the Shanghai Auto Show on Monday.
Prosecutors in Braunschweig, Germany, said on Monday they were pressing criminal charges against former Volkswagen Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn for fraud, breach of trust and breaching competition laws for failing to prevent polluting diesel cars being put on sale.
Diess is being probed in a separate investigation about market manipulation. VW and Diess declined to comment on the status of the other probe.
 (Reporting by Edward Taylor; Editing by Michelle Martin)
MOSCOW — A man wearing a black V-neck sweater walked up to a moody painting of a mountain range on display at the renowned Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow.
He leaned forward as if to admire the artist’s brushwork. Then he reached up, lifted the painting off the wall, and sauntered out of the exhibition, swinging the painting from his right hand.
The work, titled “Ai Petri, Crimea” and painted by Arkhip Kuindzhi in 1908, had been insured for $182,000, according to a spokeswoman for the museum.
The painting, which was on loan from the Russian Museum in St. Petersburg, was not lost for long. On Monday, a day after it was taken, police recovered it undamaged in a construction site outside Moscow and arrested a 31-year-old man, according to the Russian news agency TASS.
But the brazen theft will still embarrass the Tretyakov, the museum with the most important collection of Russian art in Moscow, especially as it comes less than a year after another man attacked a revered Russian painting with a pole — piercing it in three places — after drinking vodka in the gallery’s cafe.
Zelfira Tregulova, director general of the Tretyakov, said the incident was a result of art exhibitions attracting a rougher clientele. “We’re losing the culture of visiting, of interacting with art,” she told a news conference on Monday.
The theft “is a result and consequence of today’s incredible accessibility of museums, of vast numbers of people visiting our exhibitions,” she said. “Universal accessibility increases risks.”
Ms. Tregulova said that while some Western museums had added armed guards to exhibitions, Russia still tended to depend on grandmotherly types to keep an eye on visitors. The museum will add motion detectors and might consider inspecting departing visitors, she said.
The episode is the latest in a string of bold art thefts across Europe. Last weekend, thieves stole a door from the Bataclan concert hall in Paris that featured a mural attributed to the British street artist Banksy and thought to be a tribute to the victims of the 2015 terrorist attack at the venue.
In November, three men walked into the Dorotheum auction house in Vienna, cut a landscape painting by Renoir from its frame, and walked out. A 59-year-old Ukrainian man with a history of art theft was arrested in December over the crime, but the artwork has yet to be recovered, according to Harald Sörös, a spokesman for the Vienna police.
“It’s relatively rare to see someone go into a pretty significant gallery and just lift a painting off the wall,” James Ratcliffe, director of recoveries and general counsel at The Art Loss Register, which tracks and tries to solve art crime, said in a telephone interview of the Tretyakov theft. “There’s no doubt that security there is at a pretty low level to be able to do this without setting off an alarm, without any gallery staff stopping you, and to get out of the building too.”
With his closely cropped haircut and black clothes, the thief appeared to many visitors to be a hip young member of the museum staff, Russian news reports said, although one visitor eventually raised the alarm. .
“It’s amazing what you can achieve by acting confidently,” Mr. Ratcliffe said.
WASHINGTON — If you’re on federal disability payments and on social media, be careful what you post. Uncle Sam wants to watch.
The Trump administration has been quietly working on a proposal to use social media like Facebook and Twitter to help identify people who claim Social Security disability benefits without actually being disabled. If, for example, a person claimed benefits because of a back injury but was shown playing golf in a photograph posted on Facebook, that could be used as evidence that the injury was not disabling.
“There is a little bitty chance that Social Security may be snooping on your Facebook or your Twitter account,” Robert A. Crowe, a lawyer from St. Louis who has represented Social Security disability claimants for more than 40 years, said he cautioned new clients. “You don’t want anything on there that shows you out playing Frisbee.”
In its budget request to Congress last year, Social Security said it would study whether to expand the use of social media networks in disability determinations as a way to “increase program integrity and expedite the identification of fraud.”
Since then, administration officials said, the White House has been actively working with Social Security to flesh out the proposal, in the belief that social media could be a treasure trove of information about people who are applying for or receiving disability benefits.
Some members of Congress, like Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, and some conservative organizations, like the Heritage Foundation in Washington, have supported the idea as part of a broader effort to prevent the payment of disability benefits to people who are able to work.
But advocates for people with disabilities say the use of social media in this way would be dangerous because photos posted there do not always provide reliable evidence of a person’s current condition.
“It may be difficult to tell when a photograph was taken,” said Lisa D. Ekman, a lawyer who is the chairwoman of the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities, a coalition of advocacy groups. “Just because someone posted a photograph of them golfing or going fishing in February of 2019 does not mean that the activity occurred in 2019.”
Moreover, people are more likely to post pictures of themselves when they are happy and healthy than when they are in a wheelchair or a hospital bed.
More than 10 million people receive Social Security disability insurance benefits totaling more than $11 billion a month. Beneficiaries have paid into the system through payroll taxes.
President Trump is expected to detail several proposals to combat fraud in the program in his 2020 budget, to be issued on Monday.
Before he was an official presidential candidate, Mr. Trump said he would not cut Social Security.
When he announced his candidacy in June 2015, Mr. Trump maintained that position: “Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it. Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it.”
But his budgets in the last two years have proposed reductions in the disability insurance program, which has been part of Social Security since 1956.
The president’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, who is now also the acting White House chief of staff, has suggested that Mr. Trump’s campaign commitment does not cover disability benefits.
“Do you really think that Social Security disability insurance is part of what people think of when they think of Social Security?” Mr. Mulvaney asked on CBS’s “Face the Nation” in 2017. “I don’t think so. It’s the fastest growing program. It was — it grew tremendously under President Obama. It’s a very wasteful program, and we want to try and fix that.”
Brian C. Blase, a special assistant to the president for economic policy, has been coordinating development of the new proposals on Social Security. In 2014, Mr. Blase provided the staff work for a subcommittee investigation of the disability program led by Mr. Lankford, who was then a member of the House. Soon after he got to the Senate, Mr. Lankford proposed legislation to expand the use of “evidence obtained from publicly available social media.”
At present, disability examiners do not routinely look at social media. They can refer suspicious cases to the inspector general for Social Security, who may use social media to corroborate information from other sources in fraud investigations conducted with state and local law enforcement agencies.
The Trump administration contends that it could authorize greater use of social media by regulation, without action by Congress. Under pressure from the White House, Social Security has drafted a timeline that envisions publication of a final rule in the spring of 2020.
Michael J. Astrue, the last Senate-confirmed Social Security commissioner, has expressed misgivings about the idea.
“Social media sites are not exactly clear and reliable evidence,” Mr. Astrue, who stepped down six years ago, said at a Senate hearing in 2012. “Facebook puts up phony websites under my name all the time.”
That, he said, is “why you need professionally trained fraud investigators” to evaluate the information.
Few would say that the Social Security disability program was free of fraud. The government has secured guilty pleas from a number of people who concealed the fact that they were working in various industries while drawing Social Security disability benefits.
In one case, a 57-year-old Louisiana man pleaded guilty last month to theft of government funds. He had received $2,177 a month in benefits — a total of $242,000 — while employed by companies that did demolition work and job site cleaning. He also operated heavy construction equipment. He told federal investigators that the companies had been registered in the names of family members, rather than his own name, “so y’all wouldn’t find out about it,” according to court records.
In its latest financial report, Social Security estimated that it made $3.4 billion in overpayments to disability insurance beneficiaries in 2017, in part because of their failure to report work activities.
The program has been “riddled with problems, including fraud and abuse,” said Rachel Greszler, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation. When people who can work collect benefits, she said, “it drains the system for those who truly cannot work and support themselves.”
The administration’s focus on fraud comes as the number of Americans seeking Social Security disability benefits is plunging. The number of applications was down 29 percent last year from a peak of 2.9 million in 2010.
A growing economy with strong demand for workers is one reason for the decline, officials say. In addition, they speculate that with new technology and the potential for teleworking, it is possible for some people to take jobs even though they have medical conditions that would have precluded work in the past.
Social Security officials are considering other changes that could make it more difficult for people to qualify for benefits.
They are working with the White House to overhaul the way Social Security weighs various “vocational factors” — age, education and job experience — in deciding whether a person is able to work.
In November, Social Security proposed a new rule that would strip applicants and beneficiaries of their right to an in-person hearing before an administrative law judge, after some judges came under scrutiny for leniency in allowing disability claims. In 2017, a former administrative law judge for the Social Security Administration pleaded guilty for his role in a scheme to fraudulently obtain more than $550 million in federal disability payments for thousands of claimants.
Under the November proposal, Social Security could hold the hearings by video conference even if a claimant objected. With video conferencing, the agency said, it could improve service to the public and reduce wait times. At present, it said, nearly 860,000 people are waiting an average of 19 months for hearings to appeal the denial or termination of benefits.
But top Democrats responsible for Social Security policy in Congress denounced the proposal in a letter to the acting Social Security commissioner, Nancy A. Berryhill.
“This change would deprive millions of Americans of their constitutional right to due process and result in hearings which are less fair and less efficient,” said the letter, signed by Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, among others.
SANTIAGO — U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Friday that China's trade activity is often closely linked to its national security goals and warned against its "predatory lending practices."
Pompeo also warned against possible intellectual property theft practices by China, when asked by a reporter about Chile's relationship with China.
 (Reporting by Natalia Ramos; Writing by Cassandra Garrison; Editing by Richard Chang)
Good Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)
A lackluster start of the year for the global economy has prompted the International Monetary Fund to downgrade its predictions for growth in the coming months, the WSJ reports.
• “The I.M.F.’s latest economic forecasts cut the outlook for growth in 2019 to 3.3 percent from estimates of 3.5 percent in January and 3.7 percent in October. The decline has been broadly felt, with all major advanced economies, including the U.S., and most major emerging-market economies seeing deterioration in their outlook.”
• The I.M.F. pointed to “trade tensions and tariff hikes between the United States and China, a decline in business confidence, a tightening of financial conditions, and higher policy uncertainty across many economies” as reasons for the slowdown.
Don’t panic. As Daniel Moss of Bloomberg Opinion points out, the numbers aren’t so bad:
• “Yes, it’s a cut. But not a dramatic one. These numbers are a ways from one I.M.F. definition of recession, 2.5 percent, and miles from the contraction recorded in 2009.”
• “It’s entirely possible the world economy muddles through this year. It might be messy, and there will be regional divergences aplenty. The economy may not feel great, particularly depending on where you are. That doesn’t mean it’s terrible.”
Federal prosecutors unveiled new money-laundering charges against 16 parents in the college bribery case, including the actress Lori Loughlin, the former TPG executive Bill McGlashan and the former Pimco C.E.O. Douglas Hodge.
The new charges carry tougher penalties than the first wave of accusations of mail and wire fraud. The original charges command a fine of at least $250,000, while money laundering involves fines of $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved.
Some legal experts think jail time is possible for these defendants. Duncan Levin, a former federal prosecutor, told the WaPo that money-laundering charges are “one of the most powerful weapons” that the Justice Department can wield in court, and can lead to much longer sentences than simpler fraud charges.
The new charges may be an attempt to force cooperation, legal commentators added. Some defendants, including the actress Felicity Huffman and the onetime corporate lawyer Gordon Caplan, said this week that they would plead guilty to the lesser wire fraud charges. They haven’t been charged with money laundering.
Mr. McGlashan still plans to fight. The financier is accused of paying $50,000 to cheat on his son’s ACT and agreeing to pay $250,000 to help get him into U.S.C. But a lawyer for Mr. McGlashan said, “The prosecutor’s case against Mr. McGlashan is deeply flawed and ignores important exculpatory facts.”
Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic are clamping down on misleading tactics used by some major tech companies to gain data from users.
• Facebook will change its terms of service after bowing to pressure from the European Commission. The company “will spell out for users how the social-media platform makes money by using their personal information to sell targeted advertising, and clarify that it can be held liable for misuse of such data,” the WSJ reports.
• American lawmakers are scrutinizing how users are coaxed into handing over data. So-called dark patterns, like user-interface designs that encourage people to share data that they may otherwise have kept private, are the focus of a new bill introduced by Senators Mark Warner and Deb Fischer.
“For years, social media platforms have been relying on all sorts of tricks and tools to convince users to hand over their personal data without really understanding what they are consenting to,” Mr. Warner said in a statement.
“Our goal is simple: to instill a little transparency in what remains a very opaque market and ensure that consumers are able to make more informed choices about how and when to share their personal information.”
These are the latest efforts to regulate Big Tech, part of a campaign that is gathering pace among lawmakers around the world.
Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is in Brussels again today for a summit meeting with European leaders, where she will seek an extension to the troubled Brexit process. She’s unlikely to get exactly what she wants.
Mrs. May went on a “begging tour,” in the words of the German publication Der Spiegel. She visited Berlin and Paris yesterday to plead with national leaders to grant her more time to salvage her faltering withdrawal plans, Stephen Castle of the NYT explains.
Mrs. May wants to delay Brexit until June 30. But that would require her to get a deal through Parliament quickly, which seems unlikely. If she can’t secure an extension, Britain would crash out of the bloc without a deal on Friday.
The E.U. is open to a longer postponement. The European Council president, Donald Tusk, is said to prefer an extension as long as a year, Bloomberg reports — with the option of an early exit if the British government ends its deadlock. (France reportedly wants such an extension to carry strict conditions.)
The hope for a longer extension is that a deadlock could be broken by any of these events happening by the end of the year:
• Parliament approving a deal.
• A general election.
• A second referendum.
• A new prime minister.
More: How London banks are trying to dodge Brexit.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told House lawmakers yesterday that his department had discussed the potential release of President Trump’s tax returns with White House lawyers.
It was the first public acknowledgment that such discussions have taken place. Mr. Mnuchin, whose department oversees the I.R.S., will have a role in deciding whether to honor Democrats’ request for the president’s tax returns.
The Treasury secretary said that he hadn’t personally spoken with anyone from the White House, and that the discussions so far had been “informational.” He added that he had not been briefed on the talks otherwise.
Democrats have demanded the returns under a legal statute that they say gives them a right to the information. Mr. Trump and his staff have said they will fight the request.
Mr. Mnuchin deflected questions on how he will proceed. He told lawmakers that he wouldn’t let politics interfere with his decision, but added that Mr. Trump had a right to privacy.
Democrats were angry. “I think the fact that there was any communication with the White House about this is deeply troubling and certainly violates the spirit of the law, if not the letter of the law,” Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York said.
The firm said yesterday that it planned to raise its minimum wage over the next two years — just a day before its C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, is set to testify alongside other banking chiefs on Capitol Hill, Emily Flitter of the NYT reports.
• Mr. Moynihan said yesterday that Bank of America’s lowest-paid employees would earn $17 an hour starting next month. That will gradually tick up to $20 an hour.
• “It was another example of how big banks are trying to deal with shifting political winds in Washington, where they face new scrutiny under the Democrats, who now control the House of Representatives,” Ms. Flitter writes.
• Mr. Moynihan and the C.E.O.s of JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and other banks are scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee this morning.
• “The banks’ leaders must explain to progressive representatives like Maxine Waters of California and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York why they are paid more than 700 times what low-wage workers, including some tellers in their branches, earn each year.”
• They will also be asked about diversity, fair lending and the financial services industry’s ties to gun makers.
You can watch the hearing here at 9 a.m. Eastern.
Magic Johnson unexpectedly resigned as the L.A. Lakers’ president after the team failed to make the N.B.A. playoffs.
UBS reportedly fired James Boland, who had led its leveraged-finance group in the Americas, for not telling his bosses that his team had altered the terms of a leveraged buyout bond.
Deals
• Saudi Aramco raised $12 billion from its bond sale after receiving huge demand from investors. Its debt is cheaper than the Saudi government’s. (Bloomberg)
• Uber reportedly hopes to raise about $10 billion from its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)
• Wynn Resorts has ended talks to buy Crown Resorts for $7.1 billion. (FT)
• AT&T reportedly discussed selling HBO’s European operations to pay down its $170 billion debt. (FT)
• Investors are reportedly buying shares of Slack on private markets at a $14 billion valuation, more than twice the company’s last fund-raising round. (Bloomberg)
Politics and policy
• House Democrats postponed a vote on a budget measure that would increase spending after opposition from both the party’s liberal wing and fiscal hawks. (NYT)
• President Trump plans to issue executive orders that would speed up the building of oil and gas pipelines and make it harder for state regulators to interfere. (WaPo)
• Lawmakers are pushing a bipartisan bill that would prevent the I.R.S. from offering its own free tax-filing software. (ProPublica)
• Attorney General William Barr said that he planned to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week.” (NYT)
Boeing
• Demand for 737 jets in the first quarter fell 74 percent from the same time last year. (NYT)
• Aviation regulators from China and Europe have joined the F.A.A. panel reviewing the safety of the 737 Max 8. (Axios)
Trade
• The Trump administration said that a plan to impose tariffs on $11 billion worth of E.U. imports was not an attempt to shape a trade deal. (WSJ)
• In the past, the E.U. hasn’t worried about China too much as a threat. But at a summit meeting yesterday, that had clearly changed. (NYT)
Tech
• Microsoft has worked with a Chinese military-run university on A.I. research, some of which could be used for surveillance. (FT)
• YouTube had to shut down commenting on the livestream of a House Judiciary Committee hearing on white nationalism after it was overrun by racist comments. (CNBC)
• Goldman Sachs is shutting down an in-house email app, in a sign that it’s refocusing how it uses its engineering team. (Business Insider)
• Qualcomm is building its own A.I. chips in a bid to compete against Intel and Nvidia. (Reuters)
• Malware that was used to disable the safety systems of a petrochemical plant in Saudi Arabia has been used to compromise a second, unnamed industrial facility. (TechCrunch)
Best of the rest
• Standard Chartered agreed to pay $1.1 billion to settle allegations by the authorities in the U.S. and Britain that it violated money-laundering laws and economic sanctions. (NYT)
• PG&E is one of three utilities that failed to protect against cyber and physical attacks, federal regulators said. (WSJ)
• Federal officials dismantled a $1.2 billion Medicare fraud scheme that spanned continents and ensnared hundreds of thousands of elderly and disabled patients. (NYT)
• JetBlue is expected to begin trans-Atlantic flights. (CNBC)
• A former lawyer for SeaWorld Entertainment has pleaded guilty to insider trading. (WSJ)
• The Rhine, Germany’s most important shipping route, could again become too shallow for ships to traverse this summer. (Bloomberg)
Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.
We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The robbery suspect had a birthmark on his face. So when detectives placed him in a lineup, they made sure to cover it up with a bandage. Then they put matching bandages on the faces of the five decoys — or “fillers” — who sat alongside him, so as not to single out the suspect. 
But even as New York City detectives strove to make the lineup more fair by concealing one identifying feature, they left another clue in plain sight: It is lying on the floor, next to the ankle of the man in the No. 5 position. 
A shackle. A dead giveaway that No. 5 is the police suspect. 
It was not the only potential problem with the lineup, conducted on June 15, 2017, at the 101st Precinct in Queens. The suspect is the only one with twisted, or braided, hair and whose hat has an adjustable strap. 
Some lineups do what they are supposed to — engage a witness’s memory and test whether the police have the right person. But others, like the one above, contain clues that could steer the witness toward the suspect whom the police already have in their sights. A judge threw out a witness identification based on this lineup; the robbery charges are still pending. 
To be sure, the quality of New York lineups appears to have improved over the years. For a point of reference, consider this 1998 lineup, from a Manhattan manslaughter case. Can you spot the suspect? 
Look closer. No. 5 seems to be offering a hint.
It’s the man in the No. 6 slot, the one to whom No. 5, a police officer, appears to be pointing. 
Over the past two decades, the policing profession has become more attuned to the risks of mistaken identifications. Witnesses are wrong with considerable frequency when they claim to recognize a culprit. And detectives have come to understand that suggestive police procedures, such as unfair lineups, raise the risk that an innocent person is prosecuted. 
Like many other departments across the country, the New York Police Department has taken steps to improve fairness. 
“It is absolutely not in our best interest to do something that is going to be suppressed,” said Dermot Shea, the city’s chief of detectives. 
To minimize differences between the suspect and fillers, detectives will cover up tattoos and use hats to obscure differences in hair styles, Chief Shea said. “Fairness is driving everything that we do to make sure that we get the best prosecutable case, and that includes having a fair lineup,” he said. 
But suggestive lineups are not yet a thing of the past, as the shackle on the floor in the Queens lineup would seem to indicate. 
Detectives, for instance, sometimes still place teenage suspects in lineups alongside grown men, The New York Times found. A year ago, a 17-year-old robbery suspect in Brooklyn was the only teenager in the lineup. Three of the five fillers next to him were in their 30s. 
Lineups, say experts who study witness memory, can be thought of as an experiment administered by the police. Detectives have a suspect. Now they want to use the memory of a witness to test whether their suspect committed the crime. 
“In the witness's mind is a recollection, an image,” said William Brooks, the police chief of Norwood, Mass., a town of 30,000, and a longtime advocate for improving lineups. “You can’t see it or touch it, so how do you use it? You give it a stimulus, and you see the reaction, and see if there is a match.” 
A confident and quick identification — “That’s him!” or “I’ll never forget that face” — upon first viewing the suspect can be a strong indicator of an accurate identification. But only if the lineup has been administered in a neutral manner, without the police steering the witness toward the suspect. 
There are many ways for the police to steer a witness toward a particular suspect. Consider, for instance, the photo lineup — an array of six mug shots — which detectives showed a robbery victim in Queens in 2009. The victim had already told the police her assailant was a goateed man wearing a hooded sweatshirt. 
Of the six mug shots, only one — the police’s suspect, on the bottom left — had a goatee and wore a hooded sweatshirt.  
In this case, the suspect stands out because he alone fits the description. (The suspect was convicted, but an appellate court ultimately overturned it.) But in other cases, the suspect is more likely to get picked not because there is anything exceptionally obvious about him, but because some of the fillers seem implausible. 
By using fillers who bear little resemblance to how witnesses described the perpetrator, detectives increase the odds their suspect is selected, research shows. But not because the suspect is more likely to be guilty. Rather, because he may appear to be the best choice.
That is why, experts say, it is problematic for detectives to place teenage suspects alongside grown men in lineups, as happened in February 2018. The 17-year-old Brooklyn robbery suspect was the only teenager in the lineup. Two of the fillers were in their 20s. Three were in their 30s. Some fillers weighed 200 pounds or more; the suspect weighed 145 pounds.
The Times found three cases from the past decade in which a teenage suspect had a filler in his lineup who was at least twice his age. Because lineup paperwork is not ordinarily made public, there is little data for how frequently such age mismatches occur. 
Nancy Ginsburg, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who supervises cases involving adolescent defendants, said it is not unusual for fillers to be noticeably older than the suspect. 
In 2012, a 14-year-old suspect who weighed 110 pounds was put alongside fillers who ranged in age from 21 to 31 and were at least 50 pounds heavier. 
In a 2013 lineup, a 16-year-old suspect appeared alongside three fillers who were twice his age or older. 
Chief Shea declined to comment on specific cases. 
One 2010 lineup photo that was part of an appeal demonstrates how a mismatch in age can reduce a lineup’s fairness. Robbery victims in Brooklyn described one perpetrator as between 16 and 20 years old. The police arrested an 18-year-old. The fillers alongside him included a couple of men who looked older. 
The suspect is No. 4. The filler in the No. 5 position is a 35-year-old police officer. No. 1, another filler, is 29. 
A victim who remembers being robbed by a teenager is likely to exclude the older individuals as implausible choices, focusing on the few remaining faces. 
“They’re looking for the best match, as opposed to the person who matches their memory,” Karen Newirth, a lawyer with the Innocence Project, said. 
In this robbery case, the judge excused the age disparities. “We know it’s difficult for the police to get teenagers into a lineup,” said the judge, Joel Goldberg, who has since retired, according to a transcript. That decision was later overturned by an appellate court. 
“The age disparity was sufficiently apparent as to orient the viewer toward the defendant,” the appellate panel wrote. 
It is true that detectives struggle to find teenagers willing to act as fillers. In the late 1990s, some parents reported that the police had forced their teenage children into serving as lineup fillers, prompting an apology from the police commissioner. 
The challenge of finding suitable fillers is one reason that most police departments around the country have abandoned live lineups. When arranging a photo lineup, detectives can easily find suitable fillers by searching through a mug shot database. 
New York law until 2017 prevented photo lineups from being admitted as evidence in a trial, all but requiring detectives to conduct live lineups. The law has since changed. 
The New York Police Department conducted 1,353 lineups last year, about half as many as it did even two years ago. Chief Shea attributed the drop to the increasing availability of video evidence, which has lowered the reliance on witness identifications.
Still, lineups remain a key tool. In much of the city, detectives find fillers in homeless shelters or by enlisting other police officers to act as fillers, although detectives in the Bronx have their own system. 
Based on a review of court files and interviews with numerous detectives, it is clear that some detectives put considerable thought into selecting fillers. Others can be less discerning. 
In September 2014, it fell to a Bronx detective, Franco Johnson, to administer a lineup in an attempted murder case. He was hoping for five fillers who were male, black and between 30 and 35 years of age, just like the suspect, he testified. 
But in the end he settled for fillers who were significantly younger: ages 18, 19, 21, 22 and 24. It was not clear all were black. Still they all went in the lineup. 
He was asked in court whether one of the fillers — No. 6 — had a similar complexion to the suspect, who is in the No. 3 position. 
“It’s close enough,” Detective Johnson said. 
JERUSALEM — Israel's president began post-election consultations on Monday with political parties that will lead to his appointment of a candidate to form a government.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's nomination seemed virtually ensured after his right-wing Likud won the largest number of parliamentary seats in the April 9 ballot, and his closest rival, Benny Gantz of the centrist Blue and White party, conceded defeat.
President Reuven Rivlin said he would announce his choice on Wednesday after meeting with all of the parties that captured seats in the 120-member Knesset.
Under Israeli law, after consultations with the parties the president taps a legislator whom he believes has the best chance of forming a government, delegating 28 days, with a two-week extension if necessary, to complete the task.
Netanyahu said he intends to build a coalition with five far-right, right-wing and ultra-Orthodox Jewish parties that would give a Likud-led government 65 seats, four more than the outgoing administration he heads.
All of those parties have now said they will back Netanyahu, with the last to hold out, former Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman of the ultranationalist Yisrael Beitenu party, pledging support late on Monday.
"The country has decided and we need to honour the decision," Lieberman said in a speech to party supporters. "Tomorrow at the president's, we will recommend Benjamin Netanyahu as the candidate to form the government."
Gantz, a former military chief of staff whose party won 35 parliamentary seats, would likely be next in line to try to put together a government if Netanyahu fails.
For the first time, Rivlin's consultations with the parties were being broadcast live as part of what he described as a display of transparency in what has historically been a closed-door process in Israel.
At the meeting with Likud representatives, Culture Minister Miri Regev noted Netanyahu had won re-election despite Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit's announcement in February that he plans to charge the prime minister in three graft cases.
Netanyahu has denied any wrongdoing. He can still argue, at a pre-trial hearing with Mandelblit whose date has not been set, against the filing of bribery and fraud charges against him.
The Israeli leader is under no legal obligation to resign if indicted.
 (Reporting by Jeffrey Heller; Editing by David Holmes/Mark Heinrich)
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
Three weeks ago, a 69-year-old man convicted of bank fraud quietly left a federal prison camp in Cumberland, Md., and moved into a friend’s one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan. He was one of the early inmates to benefit from a criminal justice bill signed into law by President Trump.
The law, the First Step Act, offered prisoner rehabilitation programs and overhauled sentencing policies that supporters claimed had a disproportionate effect on poor defendants, especially minorities.
But one person who benefited from the law was Hassan Nemazee, the prisoner at Cumberland, who was once an investor of enormous wealth and who donated heavily to Democratic political causes. He was a national finance chairman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and later raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Barack Obama’s first presidential contest.
Mr. Nemazee, who is serving the rest of his sentence in home confinement, acknowledged in interviews that he was not a fan of Mr. Trump, but he felt personally indebted to the president and his aides for pushing through “the most significant prison reform legislation in a generation.” 
“Credit where credit is due,” Mr. Nemazee said.
Mr. Trump said recently at the White House that “unfair sentencing rules were contributing to the cycle of poverty and crime,” and since the First Step Act’s passage, more than 500 people with “unfair sentences have been released from prison and are free to begin a new life.”
But Mr. Nemazee left prison under a less publicized part of the bill that allows certain offenders who are over 60 and not considered a threat to others to be released into home confinement if they have completed two-thirds of their sentence. 
In home confinement, Mr. Nemazee does not wear an ankle bracelet, but officials may call him on a landline late at night or early in the morning to verify he is at home. He may be summoned for a urine test at any time and must submit his weekly schedule for approval, he said.
Still, it feels a lot like freedom. He may leave his apartment to go to work, the gym, religious services or appointments with his doctors and lawyers. He may also go out to lunch, “which is always a treat, given where I have been the last eight and a half years.” 
“Home confinement is a huge improvement over prison in every respect,” Mr. Nemazee said.
The Bureau of Prisons has said that since the bill’s passage, 10 prisoners — of 23 thus far deemed eligible — have been released into home confinement. The bureau would not identify the prisoners or comment on their cases.
Another is reported to be a white-collar criminal named Herman Jacobowitz, 60, who pleaded guilty in Brooklyn in 2005 in another large fraud case and was sentenced to 15 years, according to court papers and a lawyer familiar with the case. Mr. Jacobowitz could not be reached for comment. 
Annette Bongiorno, 70, who was Bernard L. Madoff’s longtime secretary and was convicted of fraud, has also applied for release into home confinement, but has not heard if her request was approved, her lawyer, Roland G. Riopelle, said. 
Mr. Nemazee was charged in 2009 with orchestrating a scheme that defrauded banks of nearly $300 million. He pleaded guilty to four fraud counts and was ordered to forfeit his $17.75 million Park Avenue duplex; an estate in southern Italy; a blue Maserati; shares in a yacht and private airplane; and $93 million in cash and securities. He was sentenced to 12 years in prison.
“I feel grateful that I am out earlier than I would have been otherwise,” Mr. Nemazee said in an interview over tea at the Pierre Hotel on Fifth Avenue. The new law also gives prisoners more time off for good behavior, and Mr. Nemazee will complete his sentence in November. 
Besides age and length of time in prison, offenders must have no record of violent crime, sex offenses or escape attempts, and officials must determine they are not a risk of committing new crimes or harming others. 
That Mr. Nemazee, a Harvard-educated former multimillionaire, qualified for home confinement showed that programs that weigh a prisoner’s risk to society give white-collar offenders a distinct advantage, said Douglas A. Berman, a law professor and sentencing expert at Ohio State University.
Still, he said: “It makes so much sense to ship the elderly out. They are so low-risk and such high-cost that we should just get them home.”
Inimai Chettiar, a lawyer at the Brennan Center for Justice who heads an initiative to end mass incarceration, said efforts to release prisoners who do not need to be imprisoned are usually a good idea. “However, we always want to make sure that it’s not being applied in a disparate way to favor white and rich prisoners over black and poor ones,” she said.
Daniel W. Levy, a former federal prosecutor who handled Mr. Nemazee’s case, said generally efforts to revamp the criminal justice system are aimed at helping “people who have not had advantages in life.” 
“What makes this a harder case,” Mr. Levy said, “is that Nemazee had virtually every advantage.”
Prosecutors charged Mr. Nemazee with using fake account statements and forged signatures to show he had collateral worth hundreds of millions of dollars to fraudulently obtain $292 million in loans from Bank of America, Citibank and HSBC.
He used the funds to buy and maintain luxury properties, make financial investments and contribute some $2 million in political donations and charitable gifts, the government said. 
“Pride, ego, arrogance, self-image, self-importance — all of these and more are among the reasons why I traveled down this destructive path,” he told Judge Sidney H. Stein of Federal District Court at his sentencing in Manhattan.
Judge Stein called Mr. Nemazee’s crime “breathtaking in its brazenness, in its scope.”
Preet Bharara, then the United States attorney, wrote in his new book “Doing Justice” that Mr. Nemazee was “essentially a less famous version of Bernard Madoff.”
Mr. Nemazee said his wealth was now gone. He said the friend who lent him his Upper East Side apartment was not charging rent. The friend, who is president and chief executive of a group of insurance companies, had also hired him as a senior adviser, he said. He would not identify the friend.
Mr. Nemazee said that before entering prison, he took to heart the advice of another friend, who told him: “‘Hassan, people view a prison sentence as a loss of time. I suggest you view it as a gift of time.’”
At a low-security facility in Texarkana, Tex., and prison camps at Otisville, N.Y., and Cumberland, he said he kept busy writing and reading, exercising, mentoring other inmates and spending “countless hours deep in thought.”
He wrote a memoir, “Persia, Politics and Prison” (he is Iranian-American), and a political thriller. At Cumberland, he also worked as a librarian.
“I hope I’ve not wasted a minute spent in prison,” Mr. Nemazee said.
He did miss his oldest daughter’s marriage and the births of his three grandchildren, he said, and “caused unimaginable harm to my ex-wife and family.”
“I am one of the fortunate who have had the love and affection of family and friends remain constant throughout my entire incarceration,” Mr. Nemazee added. “The majority of those imprisoned are not so fortunate.” 
Everyone at Cumberland kept informed of the negotiations over the First Step Act through television, newspapers and calls from outside, he said. 
On Dec. 21, when Mr. Trump signed the bill, Mr. Nemazee applied for release “effective immediately.”
“I had my application ready. Just needed to fill in the date,” he said. 
PHILADELPHIA — A jury is unable to reach a verdict in the trial of a Delaware man who admitted he broke a thumb off a $4.5 million statue at a Philadelphia museum.
Michael Rohana was attending a Christmas-themed "Ugly Sweater" party at the Franklin Institute in December 2017 when he entered a traveling exhibit featuring ancient Chinese terra cotta warrior statues.
Authorities say the 25-year-old took photos while posing next to a statue known as "The Cavalryman," then snapped off the statue's left thumb. The vandalism outraged Chinese officials.
The Philadelphia Inquirer reports that a jury deadlocked Tuesday on charges of theft and concealment of an object of cultural heritage. Rohana's lawyers argued he wasn't charged under the right law.
A mistrial was declared. Prosecutors say they'll decide by May whether to retry the case.
The nicknames assigned by federal investigators to some bank robbers are drawn largely from their appearances or modus operandi.
In March, the F.B.I. said it was seeking a bank robber in California who used wigs and facial hair disguises, calling him the Shaggy Bandit. Another in Massachusetts was named the Faceless Bandit because he was completely masked. And in April, investigators sought a robber in Knoxville, Tenn., whom they called the Edentulism Bandit because witnesses said he was missing several teeth.
The latest to appear on F.B.I. “Wanted” posters is the Traveling Bandit, who the authorities said on Friday has robbed at least seven banks in six states in less than a month.
The Traveling Bandit has covered more than 3,200 miles in a string of robberies that started on Dec. 28 at a Capital Bank in Aventura, Fla., about 20 miles north of Miami. He progressed from there to holding up a bank in North Carolina, then two in Tennessee, and one each in Alabama and Illinois. His most recent one was on Thursday in Price, Utah.
The F.B.I. said the robber, a man described as being between 40 and 50 years old, usually approaches the counter, presents a note demanding money, divulges that he has a weapon and then leaves on foot. The F.B.I. said he might be driving a white Ford Explorer or Expedition.
Jim Marshall, a spokesman at the F.B.I.’s field office in Miami, said no one has been injured in the robberies. He did not respond to questions about how much money the robber has garnered.
Robert J. Louden, a professor emeritus of criminal justice and homeland security at Georgian Court University in New Jersey, said on Friday that the robber was staying one step ahead of law enforcement by covering so much territory.
“People that repeat things get caught, but he’s repeating things in such a way that each one is the first time,” he said.
With his robberies spread out among multiple states, it is more difficult to draw attention to him because there is not one concentrated news media market, he said.
Robert D. McCrie, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a security specialist since 1970, said it also meant that the local law enforcement agencies investigating were more diffuse.
It was unknown whether officials were able to retain the notes the robber displayed, but if investigators did, they would be useful in finding physical evidence, such as DNA or fingerprints, and to study its verbiage and handwriting, Professor Louden said.
The F.B.I. released seven photos of the robber, including one in which he was wearing a shirt that said “Straight Outta Dallas.” Given the intensive use of surveillance cameras in public streets, traffic lights, tollbooths and other public spaces, how has the Traveling Bandit eluded capture?
Professor McCrie said the answer was partly that the F.B.I. had not made bank robberies a priority for decades. Facing other demands, such as addressing espionage and other issues related to the Cold War, the bureau scaled back its focus on bank robberies starting in 1980, he said.
“Routine bank robberies were not of significance,” he said. Mr. Marshall of the F.B.I. did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Still, “takeover” cases in which robbers vault over a counter and fire shots into a ceiling, terrorizing staff members and customers, will draw more law enforcement attention, Professor McCrie said. He added that investigations into bank robberies have a high closure rate — upward of 70 percent — compared with other crimes.
Bank robbers generally garner a small sum per heist — usually less than $3,000, he said — in what is considered a “relatively safe” crime. Tellers are trained to turn over money quickly in an effort to hasten the robber’s exit.
“If there’s no real weapon shown, the risk for sanctions is lower” should the person be caught and prosecuted, he said, providing an example of an accused robber’s defense: “I never had a weapon. I may have acted tough, but the most dangerous thing I had was my Cross pencil.”
He added that bank robbers are “not usually evil people” compared with violent criminals. In prison, they are not regarded as “heroes,” but they are not at the bottom of the social strata either because they have credentials as courageous risk-takers, he said.
As for why the authorities nickname the robbers, Professor McCrie said it helps to cement an image in the minds of investigators and the public even if it feels faintly like it glorifies the criminals. Also, the F.B.I. has long had a history of naming its investigations.
Professor Louden speculated that the Traveling Bandit probably has a criminal record and that he might have a background as a courier or long-haul trucker.
“They’ll get him,” he said. “It’s almost impossible for somebody to stay out forever and not get caught.”
MOUNT HOLLY, N.J. — A homeless man was sentenced to five years' probation Friday after admitting last month that he conspired with a couple to scam the public out of $400,000 in donations by concocting a feel-good story about him helping a motorist in distress.
Johnny Bobbitt had pleaded guilty in state court to conspiracy to commit theft by deception. Conditions of his sentence include inpatient drug treatment and cooperation with prosecutors against his co-defendants. If he violates those conditions, he will be sentenced to five years in prison with no possibility of parole for at least 18 months.
The story of Bobbitt, a homeless military veteran, giving Katelyn McClure $20 when she ran out of gas on a highway in Philadelphia "was designed to pull at the heartstrings of caring, trusting individuals," Burlington County Assistant Prosecutor Andrew McDonnell said in court, adding that the three exhibited "deplorable behavior."
Bobbitt, clad in an orange prison jumpsuit, declined to make a statement in court.
Prosecutors contend Bobbitt, McClure and McClure's then-boyfriend, Mark D'Amico, made up the story in 2017 and even faked photos of themselves standing on the street at the scene of the purported exchange. Blow-ups of the photos were displayed in court Friday.
The trio gained widespread recognition, and more than 14,000 donors contributed through GoFundMe, ostensibly to help Bobbitt. But it was all a scam, Burlington County prosecutors said, intended to enrich the three co-conspirators.
GoFundMe has said it refunded the donations.
Authorities began investigating last year after Bobbitt sued the couple for allegedly not giving him the money.
The couple claimed the cash would be donated to Bobbitt, but New Jersey authorities said the three split the money and spent lavishly, including on a BMW, designer bags and trips to Las Vegas and elsewhere.
More than $85,000 in cash was withdrawn at, or near, casinos in Atlantic City, Las Vegas and in Pennsylvania, prosecutors have said.
The fraud didn't stop with the GoFundMe page, according to prosecutors. The trio did interview after interview, posed for photos together, revisited the spot where they claimed their first encounter happened and went on "Good Morning America." The Associated Press prominently featured their story.
In addition to his state plea, Bobbitt pleaded guilty last month to a federal money laundering conspiracy charge. McClure pleaded guilty to one federal count of wire fraud conspiracy. No sentencing date has been set for either person on those federal charges.
D'Amico doesn't face any federal charges. He and McClure were charged last fall in state court with theft and conspiracy but have yet to be indicted by a grand jury.
D'Amico has denied wrongdoing.
MOSCOW — A Russian banker accused of fraud along with executives from the Baring Vostok private equity fund, has admitted his guilt, Interfax news agency reported, citing a judge reading from investigators' case files at a hearing in Moscow on Thursday.
The court released Kordichev from pre-trial detention and put him under house arrest. He is a former chairman of Vostochny bank, which is co-owned by Baring Vostok.
Also on Thursday, the court granted house arrest to Baring Vostok founder Michael Calvey. A U.S. citizen, Calvey denies embezzlement charges and says they are being used to pressure him in a corporate dispute over control of Vostochny bank.
 (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Writing by Polina Nikolskaya; Editing by Christian Lowe)
A former SeaWorld executive who purchased $385,000 in company shares after learning that the theme park business was expecting improved revenue and attendance pleaded guilty on Tuesday to a single count of insider trading.
Paul Powers, 60, entered the plea Tuesday in federal court in Orlando, Florida. He faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and a $5 million fine when he is sentenced, though prosecutors said in a court filing they will seek a "downward adjustment" from that.
As the company's associate general counsel, Powers was able to view information on revenue and attendance before it became public. Because of this access, he was only permitted to make purchases or sales of SeaWorld stock during a limited time period, and purchases required approval of the company's general counsel.
Powers purchased 18,000 shares of SeaWorld stock in August, just days before the company planned to report a strong financial quarter, and six weeks after he was permitted to make any trades, according to federal prosecutors.
On the day last August that SeaWorld reported its improved revenue for the second quarter, the value of the company's shares shot up by 17 percent. Powers sold those shares and made a profit of almost $65,000, according to a federal complaint.
"All of which was ill-gotten gains from his fraud," the complaint said.
The trade Powers made came at a turning point for SeaWorld, which had suffered declining attendance and revenue since 2013 following the release of the documentary "Blackfish." The film focused on the life of Tilikum, a killer whale responsible for killing trainer Dawn Brancheau. Tilikum dragged Brancheau into a pool in front of shocked visitors in 2010, and the movie implied that killer whales become more aggressive in captivity.
During that period, SeaWorld's value declined from $33 a share to $13 a share.
In the spring of 2018, SeaWorld started showing noticeable improvement in its business performance. After SeaWorld announced its second-quarter earnings in August 2018, the company's value rose from $21.13 a share to $25.40 a share.
Powers had worked at SeaWorld for seven years until he was fired by SeaWorld last October after the trade came to light.
___
Donald Trump’s lie-filled rage tweets about Puerto Rico this week over disaster aid continue a Trump pattern that mirrors a method that white supremacists have used throughout American history. Particularly present since Reconstruction, this method involves proclaiming that minorities lack the character and capacity to create effective government, and therefore minority-led jurisdictions are a hopeless drain on resources.
He tweeted that Puerto Rico’s government “can’t do anything right” and that the island’s politicians are “incompetent or corrupt” and only “complain and ask for more money,” which they spend “foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA.” He specifically called the mayor of San Juan “crazed and incompetent.”
Point of fact: Puerto Rico is part of the United States. It is a territory. Its citizens are U.S. citizens. The structure of Trump’s comments leaves open the possibility that he doesn’t know that, or conversely, knows it but doesn’t fully accept it or care about it.
If this were a one-off spat with politicians opposed to his conduct, one might reasonably write Trump’s comments off as politics as usual. Instead, this questioning of the competence of black and brown leaders is not anomaly but motif.
Trump has spent nearly a decade now trying to paint Barack Obama as not only an illegitimate president, but also as an inept, lazy, embarrassing one. He has called him a “sick,” “weak,” “incompetent leader” with a “horrible attitude” who “looks and sounds so ridiculous,” “has disastrous judgment,” is “a total failure” and was “perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States!”
Worse than the white supremacist Andrew Johnson, who did his best to obstruct Reconstruction, opposed the 14th Amendment and was impeached? Worse than Trump’s slave-owning hero Andrew Jackson, whose Indian Removal Act led to the Trail of Tears? Worse than slave-owning John Tyler, who during his time in Congress argued against the Missouri Compromise, which would restrain the spread of the “peculiar institution”? Worse than Millard Fillmore, who backed the protection of Southern slavery in the Compromise of 1850, which delayed Southern secession? Worse than Richard Nixon, who was forced from office? Worse than George W. Bush, who lied this country into the war in Iraq? Worse than Trump himself?
Let’s submit that Trump has in some ways been an equal opportunity offender and gone after all his political opponents to some degree — he incessantly called Hillary Clinton “crooked” and Bernie Sanders “crazy.”
Still, that doesn’t fully account for the particular consistency with which he attacks minority leaders and minority-led entities as inadequate, ineffective and incompetent.
According to Trump, former Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams was “totally unqualified” and would “destroy” the state of Georgia. Abrams is a star, and the way that state’s election was handled will do more to destroy it than Abrams ever could.
According to Trump, former Florida gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum was “a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee, said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!” There is no evidence of theft by Gillum, and Tallahassee isn’t the most corrupt city.
According to Trump, legendary Congressman John Lewis’s district “is in horrible shape and falling apart.” It is not. PolitiFact rated Trump’s claim “mostly false.”
Even majority-black and majority-brown countries around the globe have been condemned and dismissed by Trump in this way. Haiti, El Salvador and African countries are “shithole countries.” Mexico has a “totally corrupt gov’t,” and it is sending “animals” and “rapists” across the border.
Yet he has lobbed praise at strongmen — mostly in Europe and Asia — for being great leaders. Think Russia and North Korea.
(Western nations have also piqued his anger when they have not been sufficiently ruthless with their minority populations. He said that Britain was “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem,” and Germany “is going through massive attacks to its people by the migrants allowed to enter the country.” But Trump still maintains “a great feeling for Germany.” That feeling is apparently so great that he keeps lying that his father, Fred Trump, was born there, like he did again this week. Fred Trump was born in New York.)
To me, this marking of minorities as incapable of good governance harkens back to the Reconstruction period, when white supremacists promoted racist caricatures of newly elected black legislators acting uncouth as a way to fuel an angry backlash. This shows up in newspaper illustrations and in the film “The Birth of a Nation,” in which black legislators — eating, drinking and some without shoes — are shown in a state of chaos.
These white supremacists, many wealthy and powerful, used the threat of “black domination” to scare poorer whites into allegiance, warning them of race-mixing, miscegenation and the rape of white women and girls. They also warned about the crude attempt of black people to be civilized and judicious.
This is very similar to what Trump tweeted this week, trying to pit suffering farmers in the Midwest against suffering Puerto Rican hurricane survivors.
Trump tweeted that “Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before.”
That, of course, was just another lie. As The New York Times reported:
The farmers are mostly old, white men. As Modern Farmer pointed out in 2014:
Puerto Rico is 99 percent Hispanic.
Trump made his point clear: The mismanagement and incompetence of these brown people amount to stealing resources from these white people. As he tweeted: “Cannot continue to hurt our Farmers and States with these massive payments, and so little appreciation!”
The brown people were supposed to be thankful that white daddy in “the States” was helping them at all. As Trump tweeted, “The best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico is President Donald J. Trump.”
This is the kind of paternalistic white supremacy that doesn’t even require open hostility, although plenty often accompanies it. The logic goes this way: Everyone is better off, even minorities, when white people are in charge and calling the shots.
This is part of what drew so many white voters to Trump, whether they admit it or not: He promised to destroy, erase or replace everything President Obama had done, thereby fixing the glitch in the narrative that the only true and good leaders of America were white leaders. In the white supremacist imagination, even this horrendous white leader is better than the most educated, articulate and erudite black man.
That logic also says to people like the Puerto Ricans that even in their suffering, minorities are better off being part of this country.
This reminds me of a letter Robert E. Lee wrote to his wife in 1856 in which he said:
“The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, and I hope will prepare and lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known and ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.”
For all minorities in America, the subjugation continues, particularly now that Trump wants to dictate who is worthy of assistance and who should be allowed to suffer.
NASHVILLE — In 2004, Johnny Allen, a real estate broker in his 40s, picked up a 16-year-old girl named Cyntoia Brown at a drive-in restaurant here. Mr. Allen bought her some food and then took her to his house, agreeing to pay her $150 for sex. Ms. Brown shot him to death as he slept, taking his money and two of his handguns with her when she fled in his truck.
It’s easy to understand why prosecutors at Cyntoia Brown’s trial in 2006 saw this as a slam-dunk case. A prostitute, a robbery, the coldblooded murder of a sleeping man: How much nuance can there be in such a scenario? The jury apparently agreed, finding Ms. Brown guilty of first-degree murder and aggravated robbery. She was sentenced to life in prison. In 2012, the United States Supreme Court ruled against sentencing juveniles to life without parole, but last month the Tennessee Supreme Court upheld Ms. Brown’s sentence on the grounds that she would be eligible for parole when she is 69 years old.
But in the case of teenage criminals, even teenagers guilty of the most hideous crimes, there are no slam-dunk cases. Ms. Brown’s attorneys argued that she had killed Mr. Allen in self-defense, fearing for her life, and that she had taken his guns and his money out of fear of her pimp. (A 2011 documentary, “Me Facing Life: Cyntoia’s Story,” details her enslavement to the pimp, who was known as Cut Throat.)
[Want to join the debate? Follow us on Instagram at @nytopinion.]
“If you look at Cyntoia’s original transcripts, they are peppered with the phrase ‘teen prostitute,’” Derri Smith, founder and chief executive of the nonprofit End Slavery Tennessee, told CNN. “We know today there’s no such thing as a teen prostitute … because this teen may think that she decided this was her idea to be raped multiple times a day and give money to someone else, it’s pretty clear there’s an adult behind that who’s manipulating and exploiting her.”
On Jan. 7, Gov. Bill Haslam, a Republican, commuted Ms. Brown’s sentence. She will be paroled on Aug. 7, exactly 15 years from the date of her arrest. “Cyntoia Brown committed, by her own admission, a horrific crime at the age of 16,” Mr. Haslam said. “Yet imposing a life sentence on a juvenile that would require her to serve at least 51 years before even being eligible for parole consideration is too harsh, especially in light of the extraordinary steps Ms. Brown has taken to rebuild her life. Transformation should be accompanied by hope.”
It was an unexpected move. Harsh sentences aren’t exactly rare in the blood-red states, and Republican governors, even relatively moderate ones like Mr. Haslam, are generally loath to intervene. Last September Mr. Haslam declined to commute the sentence of Edmund Zagorski, a death-row prisoner who, like Ms. Brown, had lived an exemplary life in prison. In Mr. Zagorski’s case, transformation was accompanied by execution.
There are differences here, of course: At the time of the murders, Ms. Brown was a minor being kept as a sex slave, while Mr. Zagorski was an adult dealing drugs. Politically, though, there are risks in showing compassion to any murderer. Mr. Haslam will soon be leaving office after eight years, it’s true, but he is also the heir apparent to the United States Senate seat that will be vacated by Lamar Alexander in 2020.
In commuting Ms. Brown’s sentence, Mr. Haslam was bucking a huge law-and-order contingent in this state. The six-member parole board who presided over Ms. Brown’s clemency hearing last May was divided, with two recommending that her sentence be commuted to time served, two recommending parole after 25 years and two recommending no clemency at all. The police detective who investigated the murder urged Mr. Haslam not to pardon her. “First and foremost, Cyntoia Brown did not commit this murder because she was a child sex slave as her advocates would like you to believe,” he wrote in a letter to the governor. “Cyntoia Brown’s motive for murdering Johnny Allen in his sleep was robbery.”
It doesn’t help Mr. Haslam’s prospects that most of the voices calling for him to pardon Cyntoia Brown are political liabilities. Like Memphis, Nashville is a blue dot in the red sea of Tennessee, and the state legislature’s highest priority seems to be passing laws that undercut liberal policies enacted by its two largest cities. So when the Metropolitan Council in Nashville unanimously voted to urge the governor to pardon Cyntoia Brown, and when Nashville’s mayor, David Briley, later praised the governor’s decision to offer clemency, they weren’t doing Mr. Haslam any favors. Neither were celebrities like Ashley Judd, Rihanna, Amy Schumer and Kim Kardashian West, all of whom have taken up Ms. Brown’s cause over the years, or Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a newly elected Democrat from New York, who tweeted her praise of Mr. Haslam.
He commuted Ms. Brown’s sentence anyway.
It was an “act of mercy,” according to Ms. Brown, and she thanked the governor in a statement: “I will do everything I can to justify your faith in me.”
In this country we like to profess outrage at the primitive understanding of justice at work in other parts of the world — at the hangings, at the beheadings, at the murder sentences for extramarital affairs. But we live in a country where children can stand trial as adults and where our immigration policy includes separating nursing infants from their mothers pleading for asylum. Not everyone in other parts of the world adheres to such harsh notions of justice, and not everyone here adheres to the harsh border-control measures our president celebrates. There will always be disputes about what “justice” means.
As a country, we continue to get many questions of right and wrong entirely wrong. We seem to be a long way from knowing the difference between a crime motivated by evil and a crime motivated by profound fear, or desperation, or mental illness, or cognitive disability. We’re a long way from understanding that the death penalty is not a deterrent to crime. A long way from recognizing that racial bias pervades our criminal justice system so thoroughly that despair is more common in many of our communities than justice will ever be.
But there is hope when the governor of Tennessee chooses mercy and understanding over the strict letter of the law. There is hope when a young woman can walk out of prison into the light of freedom after 15 years behind bars for a crime she committed as an endangered and exploited child. We may never agree on what real justice looks like, but we will always know mercy when we see it. And mercy will do.
RALEIGH, N.C. — Republican politicians across the country have for years railed against the threat of voter fraud. Some have made unproven claims about how rampant it has become in order to pass voter ID laws and open sweeping investigations. The sanctity of the vote, they have said, must be protected at all costs.
But when a hard-fought congressional election in North Carolina — in which a Republican candidate appeared to narrowly beat his Democratic opponent — was overturned this week because of election fraud by a Republican political operative, the party was measured, and largely muted, in its response.
The state party chairman, Robin Hayes, issued a statement after officials ordered a new election calling the affair “a tremendously difficult situation for all involved.” National Republicans have been mostly mum. President Trump, who has made election fraud one of the hallmarks of his administration, was quiet on Twitter, although on Friday, facing reporters at the Oval Office, he condemned fraud — “all of it, and that includes North Carolina.”
Mark Harris, the Republican nominee, had eked out a 905-vote lead over Dan McCready. But the North Carolina Board of Elections refused to certify Mr. Harris as the winner and opened an investigation into irregularities. This week, the five-member board, made up of Republicans and Democrats, convened an evidentiary hearing in Raleigh at which witnesses described a voter-turnout effort that relied on the rogue collection of absentee ballots.
In several hours of testimony on Thursday, after his campaign acknowledged that it had withheld damning records from the board, Mr. Harris denied wrongdoing but also appeared to mislead regulators. He then surprised everyone by abandoning his claim to the Ninth Congressional District seat, which covers part of Charlotte and much of southeastern North Carolina.
Witnesses detailed how people working for a Harris campaign operative, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., had filled out parts of some absentee ballots and improperly collected others. On Friday, Lorrin Freeman, the district attorney in Wake County, said she could seek charges within weeks against Mr. Dowless and some of the people he hired.
“Obviously, it’s within the province of the grand jury as to whether they will return indictments,” Ms. Freeman said. “But do I anticipate there will be a criminal prosecution going forward? I do.”
State Republicans, who over the past few years have tightened voting laws and had fought to preserve Mr. Harris’s victory, were far less vociferous in denouncing voter fraud than they have been in the past.
That stands in marked contrast to 2016, when the state’s Republicans filed many complaints and claimed for a month that Roy Cooper, the Democrat who was elected governor that year, should not be seated because rampant fraud had enabled his victory. The charge proved baseless.
On Friday, State Senator Phil Berger, the president pro tempore of the North Carolina Senate and among the most powerful Republicans in Raleigh, said Mr. Harris should have heeded warnings that Mr. Dowless could not be trusted.
“If you failed to take notice of the things that are there to see and the things that you’re hearing that are repeated by people that you ought to trust, I think you deserve a fair amount of criticism,” he said.
Mr. Berger, who said he had been surprised by Mr. Harris’s decision to ask the elections board to order a new election, did not say whether Mr. Harris should run again. (In an interview, Mr. McCready said on Friday he would run in the new election, which has not been scheduled.)
“I think there was enough going on to create questions, and the results were close enough where we just needed to clean this out and start over,” Mr. Berger said in an interview at the Legislative Building.
Mr. Berger, who helped craft a voter ID law that a federal appeals court later said contained provisions that targeted “African-Americans with almost surgical precision,” said that he expected the Ninth District case to lead to new discussions about how to combat fraud in North Carolina.
Among Mr. Harris’s supporters, Tami Fitzgerald, the executive director of the North Carolina Values Coalition, a group that works with pastors throughout the state and has close ties to Mr. Harris, would not say whether fraud had taken place in the Ninth District. Instead, she called the board’s unanimous decision a “stolen victory.”
A congressional election has not been redone in more than 40 years, and doing so because of fraud is almost unheard of. But there have been ample causes for suspicion — Lyndon B. Johnson’s first Senate victory foremost among them — that illegal votes have been cast for candidates who won.
The National Republican Congressional Committee, which organizes and finances the party’s House strategy, used the debacle in North Carolina to demand that Democrats support a national ban on the collection of absentee ballots — a practice that is legal in many states but not in North Carolina.
Prosecutors in the Trump administration have been conducting a high-profile investigation in North Carolina for months to find noncitizens who cast illegal ballots, many of them in apparent ignorance of the law. But although the state elections board sent Justice Department officials evidence of absentee-ballot fraud by Mr. Dowless as early as January 2017, they took no action before last November’s House election, and it is unclear whether they are investigating the matter.
In Oval Office remarks to reporters on Friday, Mr. Trump condemned voter fraud throughout the country, falsely claiming “they found a million fraudulent votes” in California, and calling the 2018 vote count in Florida a “catastrophe” because vote totals for Republican candidates decreased during recounts.
But Mr. Trump said he looked forward to a final report on the disputed election in that state.
Indeed, no one has been more vocal about the evils of rigged votes than Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly made the false claim that the 2016 election, in which he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton, was rife with Democratic fraud.
And shortly before the midterms, when Democrats flipped the House, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that “all levels of government and Law Enforcement are watching carefully for VOTER FRAUD.”
“Cheat at your own peril,” he warned.
The president’s obsession led him to create a presidential commission charged with reining in voter fraud. Led by the Kansas secretary of state at the time, Kris Kobach, the panel sought voter data from all 50 states in an effort to prove the president’s theory of massive illegal voting. But the commission was disbanded after election officials from both parties refused to hand over the data and critics filed multiple lawsuits challenging its conduct.
Mr. Kobach, who built his political career on thinly sourced allegations of unchecked illegal voting by noncitizens, said in an interview on Friday that it “is never appropriate for either side of the political debate to be silent about voter fraud.”
“People who downplay it say it’s just a small percentage of the total vote, but that argument is meaningless in a close race,” he said.
In a column on Breitbart News, Mr. Kobach suggested that the case was a comeuppance for Democrats and voting-rights advocates who oppose the stringent controls on voting that Republicans have enacted for a decade or more. But those restrictions, limiting who can vote and how ballots are cast, only shield elections from cheating by individual voters, a kind of fraud that experts say is exceptionally rare.
The party has given scant attention to the more frequent kind of election fraud — the inside-job schemes in which campaigns or election officials manufacture fake votes and destroy their opponents’ real ones — that appears to have taken place in the Ninth District race. Absentee ballots are especially susceptible to manipulation.
On Friday, Mr. Berger, the Republican state senator, resisted suggestions that his party had ignored the fraud potential and noted that state law already banned the misconduct outlined at the hearing this week. But he said, “I think it’s clear that something needs to be done if there’s a reasonable thing that can be done.”
The technology giant tracks the locations of hundreds of millions of phones worldwide, The Times found as part of our opinion section’s Privacy Project.
The police in the U.S. have started using warrants to tap into Google’s location database, known as Sensorvault, not only for information about suspects but also for “geofence” requests on an area where a crime occurred. The dragnet can include data from dozens or hundreds of devices — and can sometimes ensnare innocent people.
How we know: Reporters interviewed Google officials and employees, prosecutors and law enforcement agents, and reviewed warrants and other legal documents.
Response: In a statement, Richard Salgado, Google’s director of law enforcement and information security, said that the company tried to “vigorously protect the privacy of our users while supporting the important work of law enforcement.” He said identifying information was provided only “where legally required.”
Explainer: Here’s more about Sensorvault, and how you can disable Google’s data collection.
Chinese authorities are using facial recognition technology embedded in its nationwide surveillance camera network to track and control Uighurs, a largely Muslim minority group, even beyond Xinjiang, the western area where they are most concentrated.
It is the first known example of a government intentionally using artificial intelligence for racial profiling, experts said.
How we know: The technology was described by five people with direct knowledge of the system. The Times also reviewed databases used by the police, government procurement documents and materials distributed by the A.I. companies making the systems.
Message from Australia: Uighur Muslims who found sanctuary in Australia are pressuring their adopted homeland to take action against the mass incarcerations in Xinjiang, for what Beijing calls “re-education.”
Stanford University is investigating the interactions one of its professors, Stephen Quake, had with a Chinese scientist, He Jiankui, as Dr. He was working on creating the world’s first gene-altered babies.
Dr. He’s announcement of success last November sent shock waves around the world. The president of his university in China later wrote to Stanford’s president, accusing Dr. Quake of having helped in the experiment.
Response: Dr. Quake denies the allegations. In his email exchanges with Dr. He, which he showed to The Times, there are no signs that he was involved with the work itself, but the messages do contain polite encouragement.
Bigger picture: Scrutiny of Dr. Quake reflects the issues that the global scientific community is now grappling with: When and how should scientists report their colleagues’ controversial research ideas?
The golfer won his first major title in 11 years, capturing the Masters title at Augusta National. It was an extraordinary comeback from personal and professional setbacks that almost derailed his career.
His pursuit of Jack Nicklaus’s record 18 major championships is now officially back on.
Background: In 2009, a marital dispute led to a car accident and a succession of lurid tabloid headlines.
On the golf course, back and leg injuries led to an addiction to painkillers and raised questions about whether he could ever play professionally again. The Times profiled him last year.
In 1962, less than half of India’s women voted. By 2014, that figure had shot up to 66 percent. This year, many expect women’s votes to outnumber men’s.
That could be a political game changer.
“Women are getting more educated, they’re more emancipated, they’re more independent,” said Prannoy Roy, co-founder of India’s NDTV news channel and a veteran poll analyst.
Women have shown generally less support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. In 2014, if only women had voted, the B.J.P wouldn’t have won the historic majority it did in the lower house of Parliament, according to Mr. Roy, who analyzed the data for his new book, “The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections.”
What do women care about in this election? Jobs, Mr. Roy said.
Record unemployment has hit women particularly hard. According to the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy, an independent think tank, of the 11 million jobs India lost in 2018, 8.8 million had been held by women.
It’s little surprise, then, that several political parties, including the B.J.P. and the Congress Party, have proposed policies specifically intended to improve the job picture for women.
Send us your feedback and questions about this series here.
U.S.-China relations: The F.B.I. has started barring Chinese scholars from visiting the U.S. if they are suspected of having links to Beijing’s intelligence agencies, a sign of the mounting concerns in both countries over espionage, commercial theft and political meddling.
ISIS: The Red Cross kept secret the identity of a nurse who was abducted by the terrorist group in late 2013 in Syria to increase her chances of survival. Now that the Islamic State has collapsed, the aid group has broken its silence — identifying her as Louisa Akavi from New Zealand — in the hopes that the public can help find her. 
Julian Assange: The extradition of the WikiLeaks founder to the U.S. will be a long and complex process of legal filings, hearings and administrative decisions that could take at least a year, experts said.
Seychelles: The president of the archipelago made an impassioned plea to save the world’s oceans, from the inside of a submersible craft 400 feet below the surface of the Indian Ocean.
Climate change: Rising temperatures and extreme weather cycles in Mexico and Central America are disrupting crops and harvests. That’s proving to be a tipping point for many farmers, who are increasingly abandoning their land and heading north toward the U.S.
Stratolaunch: The world’s largest plane — with a wingspan longer than a football field — took flight for the first time. It’s designed to carry rockets to blast commercial satellites into space, which is considered more efficient than launching them from the ground.
Animal rights: Many tourists visiting Egypt’s major attractions have been appalled by sights of abused, overworked horses and camels, calling on visitors to boycott animal rides.
Snapshot: Above, the police commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar, India. Britain has stopped short of apologizing for the 1919 killings that claimed the lives of hundreds of people peacefully protesting colonial rule.
What we’re reading: This article in Science News. “Dumbo is a delightful movie, but an elephant is never going to fly by flapping its ears,” says Michael Roston, a science editor. “This fun article by Bethany Brookshire examines the anatomical obstacles.”
Cook: This dish of tomatoes, rice and melty Cheddar can be best described as pizza rice. (Yes, pizza rice.)
Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.
Listen: The composer George Crumb turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but, if you can’t make those, we have a Spotify playlist of his compositions.
Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world. It’s one of eight new books we recommend.
Smarter Living: There are scientifically proven, somewhat surprising ways to increase your memory power. Give your mind a chance to consolidate information by retreating to a dark, quiet room for 10 minutes of inactivity (but not sleep). And you can boost your brain’s ability to retrieve memories by quizzing yourself on them, or sharing them out loud.
And we look at the benefits of sharing — whether triumphs, photos or difficulties — in person rather than on social media.
With the arrest last week of its founder, Julian Assange, WikiLeaks is back in the headlines.
“Leaks” is obvious for the name of the anti-secrecy organization, which started in 2006, but where does “wiki” come from?
In 1995, the computer programmer Ward Cunningham introduced the first wiki, a website that’s collaboratively produced by users. He called it WikiWikiWeb, after the Hawaiian word for “quick,” which he had picked up from the name of an airport shuttle in the islands.
The word was later adopted by Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia that started in 2001, and was added to the Oxford English Dictionary in 2007.
The wiki isn’t Mr. Cunningham’s only contribution to modern online life. He also gave his name to Cunningham’s Law, the idea that the best way to find the correct answer on the internet isn’t to ask a question, but to post the wrong answer.
It’s the eye of the Tiger, it’s the thrill of the fight. See you next time.
Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican who nearly won a seat in Congress last year but saw his political fortunes collapse after the revelation that his campaign had financed a fraud-tainted voter-turnout effort, said on Tuesday that he would not run in a new election.
In a statement on Tuesday, less than one week after the North Carolina State Board of Elections ordered a new contest for the seat, Mr. Harris attributed his decision to medical issues that included two recent strokes and issues with his memory and recall, saying the Ninth District deserved “to have someone at full strength during the new campaign.”
“It is my hope that in the upcoming primary, a solid conservative leader will emerge to articulate the critical issues that face our nation,” said Mr. Harris, an evangelical pastor from Charlotte.
Mr. Harris’s decision was not especially surprising in the wake of an evidentiary hearing last week in Raleigh, where state officials and witnesses described an absentee ballot effort that was rife with misconduct. Although Mr. Harris denied any personal wrongdoing, he testified that he had hired the contractor at the center of the scandal, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., and he acknowledged that he gave “incorrect” testimony to the state board last Thursday.
[Read: Inside a Fly-by-Night Operation to Harvest Ballots in North Carolina]
At the time, Mr. Harris blamed his recent health problems, and in his announcement on Tuesday, he cited his medical history and plans for surgery as factors in his decision not to run again.
The state board has not yet set a timetable for the new election, and Democrats are expected to mount an aggressive campaign. Dan McCready, the Democratic nominee in last fall’s race, said on Friday that he would run in the new contest. Prominent Democratic officials and groups have already begun to coalesce around Mr. McCready, a former Marine who has been among his party’s most prized candidates.
“I view my job as to make the case to everyone in this district, whether they’re Republican, independent or Democrat,” Mr. McCready said in an interview on Friday. “I hope to bring a leadership to Washington that people can be proud of.”
What is still uncertain is how much the wrongdoing associated with last year’s vote — conduct that a prosecutor said last week could soon lead to criminal charges — will loom over this new election. But Mr. Harris’s decision not to run could limit that line of attack, and Republican officials have expressed optimism that the Ninth District campaign will eventually focus on policy issues.
Still, Mr. McCready suggested that he could use the Harris-funded operation, which witnesses said included the illegal collection and completion of absentee ballots, to remind voters of the turmoil that enveloped the Ninth.
“I’ve come to realize over the course of the last couple of months that what we’re up against is politicians who put themselves before the people they’re supposed to serve,” Mr. McCready said. “What we saw this week was a politician who let his own desire for power color his view, and he did the wrong thing instead of the right thing.”
Even before Mr. Harris announced his decision on Tuesday, many leading Republicans had begun to distance themselves from him in public and in private, seemingly dimming the prospects for a rematch of last fall’s contest. In that race, Mr. Harris appeared to prevail by 905 votes, but state officials soon refused to certify him as the winner and announced the inquiry that ultimately led to the new election, the first redo of a congressional House seat in more than 40 years.
[Read: Republican Cries Against Voter Fraud Go Mostly Quiet After Scheme Tied to Party]
On Tuesday, Mr. Harris said he would support Stony Rushing, a commissioner from Union County, for the Republican nomination. The endorsement came one day after former Gov. Pat McCrory, who was among the most prominent Republicans to consider a campaign in the Ninth, said he would not run. Instead, Mr. McCrory said he was considering a comeback bid for governor in 2020, or a Senate run in 2022.
The Ninth, which includes part of Charlotte and runs through much of southeastern North Carolina, will not have representation in Congress until the new election has been completed and certified. Republicans have held the district’s House seat since 1963. The state’s Third District, which is on the Atlantic coast and includes the Outer Banks, has been vacant since earlier this month when Walter B. Jones, a Republican serving his 13th term, died. A special election for that seat has not been scheduled.
Stream Netflix’s behind-the-scenes documentary on the failed Fyre Fest, and the Season 5 premiere of “Grace and Frankie.”
FYRE: THE GREATEST PARTY THAT NEVER HAPPENED on Netflix. The viral unraveling of Fyre Festival became a big punch lines of 2017. What was originally billed as an ultraluxury music festival in the Bahamas — organized by the entrepreneur Billy McFarland and the rapper Ja Rule, and promoted by supermodels like Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid — in fact involved soggy tents and deconstructed cheese sandwiches upon the arrival of hundreds of festivalgoers. The documentarian Chris Smith, who directed “Jim & Andy: The Great Beyond,” dives into what went wrong, and how millennial revelers were duped, by talking with festival organizers. Absent from Netflix’s documentary is an interview with McFarland, who was sentenced to six years in prison for fraud in October. He gave an exclusive interview to Hulu, which released its show about the festival, “Fyre Fraud,” days before the Netflix release. In his review of both films, Wesley Morris of The New York Times says, “You watch both movies in a kind of fascinated horror at how easy it was for McFarland to create a network of what appears to be unwitting co-conspirators to help him plan an experience that wound up losing $24 million.”
CARMEN SANDIEGO on Netflix. Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego? You can find her on Netflix in that streaming service’s new animated show, voiced by Gina Rodriguez. The 10-episode series is based on the globe-trotting criminal mastermind of the late-1980s educational video games, but aims to uncover more about the title character’s back story, from her time as a student at V.I.L.E. Training Academy for Thieves through to her transformation to a crook who steals valuable artifacts from other crooks. Finn Wolfhard, of “Stranger Things,” stars alongside Rodriguez in the series as her trusted sidekick, Player.
GRACE AND FRANKIE on Netflix. The complete fifth season of this buddy comedy finds the title characters (played by Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin) continuing in the new chapters of their lives since their husbands (played by Martin Sheen and Sam Waterston) revealed they are gay and left their wives for each other. If Netflix’s trailer is any indication, fans can expect breaking-and-entering, New Age cults, marijuana edibles, some ill-timed nudity, a guest appearance by RuPaul and possibly even new love interests for the frenemies.
CHRIS DISTEFANO: SIZE 38 WAIST 11 p.m. on Comedy Central. This New York comedian, who just signed an overall deal with Comedy Central, performs standup in his hourlong special, in which he criticizes grown men in suits commuting to work on scooters, and likens his 2-year-old daughter to “a miniature baby woman.”
REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER 10 p.m. on HBO. This comedian and satirist begins the 17th season of his talk show with the N.F.L. running back Marshawn Lynch and John R. Kasich, whose term as governor of Ohio ended this week.
NEW YORK — Lenny Dykstra has sued one-time New York Mets teammate Ron Darling, St. Martin's Press and Macmillan Publishing Group over a passage in the pitcher's new book accusing the outfielder of directing racist comments toward Boston pitcher Oil Can Boyd during the 1986 World Series.
Dykstra, sentenced seven years ago to prison on both federal and California state charges, filed suit Tuesday in New York Supreme Court in Manhattan alleging defamation and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Darling's "108 Stitches: Loose Threads, Ripping Yarns, and the Darndest Characters from My Time in the Game" was published April 2 by St. Martin's Press, which is part of Macmillan.
Darling wrote Dykstra was "one of baseball's all-time thugs" and was in the on-deck circle at Boston's Fenway Park before Game 3 of the 1986 World Series while Boyd warmed up "shouting every imaginable and unimaginable insult and expletive in his direction — foul, racist, hateful, hurtful stuff." Darling went on to call it "the worst collection of taunts and insults I'd ever heard — worse, I'm betting, than anything Jackie Robinson might have heard, his first couple times around the league."
Dykstra's lawsuit called Darling's account a "fictional portrayal" and "false and self-serving."
"No such racist tirade ever occurred," the lawsuit said.
Darling, a 58-year-old SNY broadcaster, declined comment before the Mets' game against Minnesota on Tuesday night. Tracey Guest of St. Martin's Press did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Dykstra, now 56, was sentenced to three years in a California state prison in March 2012 by Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Cynthia Ulfig after pleading no contest to grand theft auto and providing a false financial statement. He was sentenced to 6 1/2 months in prison that December by U.S. District Judge Dean D. Pregerson after Dykstra pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles to bankruptcy fraud, concealment of assets and money laundering. The sentences were to be served concurrently.
___
Goodness knows I’m loath to write anything these days that would feed Donald Trump’s ego. But this time it’s unavoidable. There is a new global political era emerging that, while not entirely attributable to Trump, his party and his administration, they’ve surely played a huge role in fostering. A variety of analysts have now given this era the same name: “Anything goes.” And for good reason.
Look around the world and not only do you see a democratic recession — the number of democracies abandoning their democratic bona fides with sham elections is steadily mounting — but you see something much more grotesque: Leaders are grabbing power for life, murdering or jailing even the mildest of critics and shamelessly building coalitions with openly racist and bigoted parties.
Most important, they’re doing it with utter impunity — confident that either no one is watching or no one will meaningfully call them out.
This is what happens when people think America isn’t looking, doesn’t care or worse, has a president, himself having uttered over 9,000 lies and misleading statements, who has zero moral authority to call out others. When it comes to being a global watchdog that tries to enforce some basic norms of decency, America under Trump is out to lunch — and a lot of people have figured that out, and so anything goes.
“It’s not just that liberal democracy is retreating under pressure from demagogic politicians exploiting the stresses of globalization, rising inequality, economic insecurity, job displacement, immigration, and so on,” argues Larry Diamond, author of a prescient new book, “Ill Winds: Saving Democracy From Russian Rage, Chinese Ambition, and American Complacency.” “It’s that authoritarian forces everywhere perceive that there is no longer any price to pay for ruling as nastily as they want.”
So, today, “every type of regime is getting worse,” Diamond adds. “Liberal democracies are becoming more intolerant. Illiberal democracies are electing authoritarian personalities like President Duterte in the Philippines, who are purging judges and locking up journalists who dare to criticize them. Authoritarian regimes that once coexisted with pockets of opposition no longer see the need to bother. In Cambodia, the party of the long-ruling dictator, Hun Sen, now controls every seat in Parliament. And China is now constructing the first truly Orwellian surveillance state.”
It all makes some of the lyrics of Cole Porter’s classic song seem so ahead of their time:
The world has gone mad today/ And good’s bad today/ And black’s white today/ And day’s night today/ And that gent today/ You gave a cent today/ Once had several chateaux …/ Anything goes.
Just think of those shocks you’ve got/ And those knocks you’ve got/ And those blues you’ve got/ From that news you’ve got/ And those pains you’ve got/ (If any brains you’ve got) …/ ’Cause Franklin knows/ Anything goes.
When America, the world’s most influential democracy, has a leader without shame, who is backed by a party without spine willing to prostitute itself to Trump no matter how low he goes — and both are protected by a virtually state-run network without integrity, called Fox — it becomes a hunting license for leaders everywhere to go after their own domestic opponents and cross any human rights redline to stay in power.
And we’re talking about some close allies. Last week, Israel’s attorney general recommended that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu be indicted on charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust in connection with three different corruption cases. This comes just after Netanyahu forged a political alliance with an openly racist, anti-Arab party.
Netanyahu’s new political ally, the Otzma Yehudit (Jewish Power) party, traces its lineage to Rabbi Meir Kahane’s outlawed Kach Party, which advocated annexing the West Bank, expelling the Palestinians who lived there and resettling Israeli Arabs in Arab countries. Otzma’s leader, Michael Ben-Ari, with whom Bibi made his alliance, was denied a visa to the U.S. in 2012 on the grounds of being associated with a violent extremist group.
Among Otzma’s leaders, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency reported, “is former Kahane aide Baruch Marzel, a resident of Hebron who holds a party every year at the grave of Baruch Goldstein, who in 1994 massacred 29 Palestinians at the Cave of the Patriarchs.”
These are the people Netanyahu wants to bring into his government. Why not? Bibi knows that no matter how low he sinks, Trump will always have his back.
Yes, politics can be a dirty business, “but there are sacred areas in which you don’t play politics, where there has to be a boundary,” says Hebrew University philosopher Moshe Halbertal. And making an alliance “with a racist party is one of them. Because when you do that you actually inflate them and send a message about what kind of speech is permissible.”
You may think that “they are just a means to your ends,” adds Halbertal. “But in the end, they will control you, they will dominate your identity,” and, in Bibi’s case, “they will define who he is, who is Israel, who is Israel in the eyes of world Jewry and who is Israel in the eyes of the world.”
Our enemies and rivals are also worse than ever. Iran has been deeply complicit in the ethnic cleansing of Sunnis in Iraq and Syria, in the use of poison gas by Syria’s regime and in the crushing of Lebanese democracy through its proxy the Hezbollah militia. 
But Iran gets away with it. The Iranians know that U.S. human rights activists are so focused on Saudi Arabia’s vile murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi and its bombings in Yemen that they’re ignoring Iran’s misbehavior. So anything goes.
China’s government has felt free enough to admit that it’s been forcing religious minorities, particularly Chinese Muslims, into “re-education camps” to eliminate “extremism.” But news seeping out of these camps indicates they have “a lot more in common with concentration camps. Thousands of guards carrying spiked clubs, tear gas and stun guns surveil the government’s ‘students,’ who are held in buildings ringed with razor wire and infrared cameras,” said Vox, citing a recent report by Agence France-Presse.
Allies of Egypt’s president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, are well on their way to amending the Egyptian Constitution to make him, in effect, president for life, or at least until 2034, and give even more power to the military. El-Sisi, who made this power grab after a visit from and praise by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, has also arrested far more Egyptians for the mildest of criticism, and snuffed out far more press freedoms, than his predecessor Hosni Mubarak — without a peep out of America.
In Uganda, 74-year-old President Yoweri Museveni got age limits abolished so he can, in effect, also become president for life, after sending troops onto the floor of Parliament to beat up opposition lawmakers objecting to the move. 
Larry Diamond says, “A leading Ugandan human rights lawyer wrote to me that with Trump in the White House and Europe silent and democratic norms generally in retreat, African rulers like Museveni now feel emboldened to rule as long and as brutally as they want.”
Again, whether it is the presidents of China, Egypt, Uganda, Russia and Turkey all basically making themselves into presidents for life, or Bibi forging an alliance with a racist politician banned from America so that he can cling to power in Israel, or the Saudi crown prince’s team murdering moderate journalist/critic Jamal Khashoggi, or allies Poland, Brazil and Hungary all drifting away from democracy under the sway of power-hungry nationalists, it’s obvious that none of them, none of them, ever bothered to ask themselves before their respective moves, “But what will the Americans say if we do this?”
They knew the answer: Anything goes.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The Manhattan district attorney’s office is preparing state criminal charges against Paul J. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, in an effort to ensure he will still face prison time even if the president pardons him for his federal crimes, according to several people with knowledge of the matter.
Mr. Manafort is scheduled to be sentenced next month for convictions in two federal cases brought by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III. He faces up to 25 years in prison for tax and bank fraud and additional time for conspiracy counts in a related case. It could effectively be a life sentence for Mr. Manafort, who turns 70 in April.
The president has broad power to issue pardons for federal crimes, but no such authority in state cases. And while there has been no clear indication that Mr. Trump intends to pardon Mr. Manafort, the president has spoken repeatedly of his pardon power and defended his former campaign chairman on a number of occasions, calling him a “brave man.”
The office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., first began investigating Mr. Manafort in 2017 in connection with loans he received from two banks. Those loans were also the subject of some of the counts in the federal indictment that led to his conviction last year. But the state prosecutors deferred their inquiry in order not to interfere with Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.
They resumed their investigation in recent months, and a state grand jury began hearing evidence in the case, several people with knowledge of the matter said. The panel is expected to wrap up its work in the coming weeks, several of the people said, and prosecutors likely will ask the grand jurors to vote on charges shortly thereafter.
Mr. Vance’s office is expected to seek charges whether or not the president pardons Mr. Manafort. The plan was first reported by Bloomberg.
Any charges brought by Mr. Vance’s office would likely be challenged on double jeopardy grounds. New York state law includes stronger protections than those provided by the United States Constitution, and Mr. Manafort’s defense team is likely to challenge any state charges. But prosecutors in Mr. Vance’s office have expressed confidence that they would prevail, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Jason Maloni, a spokesman for Mr. Manafort, said his legal team had no comment. Mr. Vance’s office also had no comment.
Mr. Manafort, who worked for Mr. Trump’s campaign during a critical five months when he became the Republican Party’s presidential nominee in 2016, was convicted in federal court in Virginia in August on eight counts of various financial crimes. Prosecutors said Mr. Manafort used foreign accounts to hide millions of dollars from his political consulting work in Ukraine and evade taxes, and lied to banks to obtain millions of dollars in loans.
Weeks later, he agreed to plead guilty in a related case in federal court in Washington, D.C., and cooperate with prosecutors from Mr. Mueller’s office. But the deal blew up when a judge ruled he had repeatedly lied to the government about his contact with a Russian associate during the campaign and after the election. Prosecutors claim that the associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, has ties to Russian intelligence, and have been investigating whether he was involved in a covert attempt to influence the election results.
In the Manhattan case, the evidence presented to a grand jury appears to have been connected to loans issued by Citizens Bank in Rhode Island and Federal Savings Bank in Chicago.
The banks have received grand jury subpoenas for records relating to the loans they issued to Mr. Manafort, which were worth millions of dollars, people with knowledge of the matter said. The grand jury has also been hearing testimony about the loans. Citizens Bank has been cooperating with the investigation, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. A spokeswoman for Federal Savings Bank did not respond to a request for comment.
It is unclear precisely what charges Mr. Manafort would face, but they could include two state felonies: falsifying business records, if the evidence shows Mr. Manafort used the loan money for an unauthorized purpose, and mortgage fraud.
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — A Florida clemency board has denied an early prison release for a man known as "White Boy Rick," once one of the FBI's youngest informants and the subject of a recent Hollywood movie.
The Executive Clemency Board sent a letter two weeks ago to Richard Wershe Jr.'s attorney, saying it has denied the request for a commuted sentence.
The letter didn't state a reason.
Wershe's current release date is in October 2020.
Wershe is in prison for his role in an interstate car theft ring which operated while he was already imprisoned. At age 14, Wershe was an FBI informant in Detroit who helped convict a major cocaine trafficking ring but he eventually got caught selling drugs himself.
His story was the basis of the 2018 film "White Boy Rick."
The many students enmeshed in the college admissions scandal that was unveiled last week now face a reckoning as universities seek to determine whether they were innocent victims who should keep working toward their degrees or unethical schemers worthy of discipline.
The University of Southern California said it had identified six current applicants associated with the case and would reject them. The school informed an additional number of enrolled students who were linked to the scandal that they could not register for classes until administrators had determined their level of culpability.
Yale, another university implicated in the fraud, reminded students last week of a longstanding policy to rescind the admission of students who falsify applications. A statement from Stanford said that inaccurate information on a college application was grounds for being “disenrolled” from the university or having an offer of admission rescinded, “as has happened regretfully in the past.”
The 33 wealthy parents charged with paying large sums to get their children into leading universities are the targets of criminal complaints. But it is the schools themselves that must grapple with how to mete out justice to students who gained admissions through fraudulent means.
The scope of the scandal has left many college administrators in uncharted ethical territory.
“A college is not in a great position to investigate,” said Theodore O’Neill, who was dean of admissions at the University of Chicago for two decades. “The admissions process is held together by a tissue of trust.”
[Here’s what you need to know about the college cheating scandal.]
Colleges have policies for addressing cheating by enrolled students. But now they must evaluate allegations of cheating that occurred before students ever set foot on campus — acts that some may not have known was being done on their behalf. Moreover, some students who gained admissions to universities through fraudulent means may have already graduated, raising the question of whether they ought to be stripped of their diplomas.
The schools, many of which say they are victims, are eager to show they are taking steps to deter flagrant admissions fraud. But the conclusion of the criminal cases could take months, and perhaps exonerate some of those involved.
A former federal prosecutor, Berit Berger, said that it could be tricky for universities to conduct internal investigations during a possibly protracted criminal proceeding.
College disciplinary systems do not necessarily operate on a standard of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. But if a school expelled a student, and a trial then exonerated the family, “that’s not a good look,” said Ms. Berger, now director of the Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity at Columbia Law School.
Ms. Berger also wondered what universities might do if students implicated in the scandal had already graduated. “Do you pull the parchment?” she said.
At least one school, Wake Forest, has said that a student implicated in the case will remain enrolled. 
“At this time, we do not plan to take any action against her when there is no evidence she had any knowledge of the alleged financial transaction,” said Katie Neal, a Wake Forest spokeswoman.
It is not just the nationwide college admissions scandal, which the authorities labeled “Operation Varsity Blues,” that is prompting review.
In the wake of revelations about the fraud and abuse that were rampant at T.M. Landry High School in Louisiana — which was the subject of a scandal of its own — students who had enrolled in college faced scrutiny from their administrators and peers.
The bribery scheme has also torn through the world of elite Los Angeles area prep schools. Harvard-Westlake School received subpoenas from federal investigators before the case was publicly announced. Two parents named in the case resigned from the board of trustees of Sage Hill, a private school in Newport Coast, Calif.
“We condemn the alleged actions of those implicated in this scandal as they clearly do not reflect our school’s mission, values and vision,” Sage Hill said in a statement, adding that the “consistent practice has been to recommend against the use of independent college counselors.”
Some of the students implicated in the case unearthed by federal prosecutors last week appear to have been knowing participants in the fraud.
But it was adults who played the dominant roles, with parents, consultants, college officials and athletic coaches under indictment for scheming on behalf of unwitting children.
In the court papers, which contain transcripts of conversations between parents and officials at the organization that arranged the bribes, one parent recounted a “glitch” when her son, fraudulently recruited as a track athlete, was asked about the sport by an adviser at orientation.
“Apparently the adviser said something to the effect of, ‘Oh, so you’re a track athlete?’ And [my son] said, ‘No.’ Cause, so [my son] has no idea,’’ the transcript reads.
“I understand, she won’t even know,’’ another parent said, referring to elaborate plans to deceive her daughter about an arrangement to falsify her standardized test score.
Still, several colleges issued statements this week indicating that students unwittingly associated with the scandal could still be held accountable because they are required to certify, by signing their applications, that they had told the truth.
At the University of Texas, for instance, that language reads: “I certify that the information I have provided is complete and correct, and I understand that the submission of false information is grounds for rejection of my application, withdrawal of any offer of acceptance, cancellation of enrollment and/or appropriate disciplinary action.”
University officials declined to discuss specific cases, citing privacy rules, but they said punishment could be as severe as being expelled or having admission rescinded. The federal investigation found that a Yale coach gave bogus athletic endorsements to two students, one of whom was admitted to the college, Tom Conroy, a spokesman for Yale, said Tuesday. He said that how well a student performed academically while at Yale would not factor into a disciplinary decision.
“When applicants sign their applications, they attest that the contents are true and complete,” Mr. Conroy said.
Even beyond such formal attestations, some ethicists said there was a case for expelling the students who benefited unknowingly from their parents’ machinations.
“It’s pretty common in the law, and it coincides with moral intuitions: If you’re the unwitting beneficiary of a fraud, you don’t get to keep the benefits,” said Brian Leiter, director of the Center for Law, Philosophy and Human Values at the University of Chicago, who has posted on his philosophy blog, “Leiter Reports,’’ about the scandal.
And children, Professor Leiter said, share a common interest with their parents. Allowing them to acquire a prestigious college degree would reward their parents’ behavior, even if they had been unaware of it. But he said what to do with students like those at T.M. Landry whose high school administrators had falsified their applications was more difficult, because the school had an interest in raising its own reputation.
“If it’s entirely on the administrator, probably the penalty shouldn’t be exacted on the student,” he said.
Messages left with more than three dozen parents and students associated with the alleged scheme were not returned on Tuesday.
William Singer, the college counselor at the center of the fraud case, expressed sympathy for the children of his former clients who now find themselves facing possible expulsion, his lawyer, Donald H. Heller, said in an interview.
“He feels horribly for the distress the kids are going through,” Mr. Heller said. Mr. Singer’s suggestion, for what it’s worth, is that “each student should be judged on the student’s personal culpability — as opposed to the conduct of others,” the lawyer said.
In any divorce, lawyers are the only surefire winners, and as Britain muddles through one of the biggest, messiest and most complicated breakups in economic history, the country’s top law firms are booming.
Brexit, as Britain’s separation from the European Union is known, is just one of many reasons that the highest-grossing firms are enjoying their best results in a decade. Virtually every practice area is thriving.
Regulatory lawyers, those steeped in the staggering legal minutia produced by Brexit, have lately gone from drudges to rainmakers. These attorneys strategize with clients for life after Europe’s single market, consultations that often end in bewilderment and rage.
“There’s been some swearing, some clients whose faces have drained of color, when they realize the sort of impact this all will have,” said Andrew Hood, a regulatory and trade partner at Fieldfisher, a London-based firm with more than 1,000 lawyers. “And in the last six weeks, the number of clients who have woken up worried about what a no-deal Brexit looks like has doubled or tripled.”
Law firms do not break out performance data by practice. But managing partners at the busiest firms said in interviews that their biggest clients were now spending upward of $10 million for “mitigation actions” on Brexit-related matters, such as restructuring, intellectual property rights and employment law. Even more work is expected as companies gear up to rewrite hundreds of thousands of contracts of every variety in what has been called “a massive repapering exercise.”
“You get to the end of one financial year and think, it’s the next one I’m worried about,” said David Patient, managing partner at Travers Smith, which first started working with financial clients in 1801. “We’ve been saying that for two or three years now, and we’ve been growing across the sectors at around 10 percent.”
Last year, the top 100 law firms in Britain brought in 24 billion pounds in revenue — the equivalent of $32 billion — about £8 billion more in inflation-adjusted terms than in 2007, before the financial crisis, according to data collected by The Lawyer, a monthly British magazine for commercial lawyers and in-house counsel.
Over the same period, those firms have added 21,000 lawyers to their head count. The additional bodies have enhanced profits per equity partner, the bragging-rights metric in the profession. Those profits have risen each year since the Brexit referendum passed in 2016, and now average the equivalent of $1.4 million per partner at the top 10 firms.
Though law firms often prosper in times of uncertainty, few partners expected an upturn of this size. The contrast with the bleak days that followed the financial crisis in 2008 could not be starker. Then, attorneys at the most prestigious firms in the City of London, the financial district, were worried that as their biggest clients filed for bankruptcy, their firms would soon follow.
There were layoffs and pay freezes, but lawyers also kept busy restructuring companies or ushering them through insolvency. More recently, there were windfalls from investigations into allegations of frauds, like Volkswagen’s diesel emissions scandal.
Then came June 23, 2016, and the colossal billable-hour generator known as Brexit.
“Well, I left the office at 11 last night,” Susan Bright, a regional managing partner at Hogan Lovells, said one recent morning, sitting at a conference room table on the firm’s 11th floor. “And these guys were still at it.”
Charles Brasted, the firm’s resident Brexit sage, sat nearby and smiled with surprising contentment, a marathoner relishing his endurance.
“My emails probably show that I send emails at 1 or 2 in the morning,” he said. “And I start sending emails at 5 or 6 in the morning.”
The two attorneys and a handful of colleagues had just finished a Brexit webinar, an audio-only production for about 150 clients. The clients emailed questions, which filled an inbox shown on a video screen on a wall.
“If there is no deal, could W.T.O. members refuse to recognize the U.K.’s membership to the W.T.O.?” one question read, referring to the World Trade Organization. (The W.T.O. is where Britain would negotiate international trade in the event of a no-deal Brexit.)
“In short, no,” Aline Doussin, head of the firm’s United Kingdom trade practice, said into a microphone. “Legally, the U.K. is a member in its own right to the W.T.O.”
Brexit webinars have proliferated in the last two years, just one way in which firms reach for a share of a new up-for-grabs field. The Legal 500, a British clients guide, has even begun to list top-tier firms in a Brexit category for their ability to minimize risk.
Vying for Brexit business has helped big law in Britain get over its traditionally reticent approach to self-promotion. A few weeks ago, Eversheds Sutherland, a firm with more than 2,800 lawyers around the world, installed in its lobby an immense video screen that could have been lifted from a hockey arena. It cycles silently through slickly produced slides, including one that trumpets its latest financial results: “Announcing a 10% Increase in Global Revenue in 2018.”
“Our lobby,” Matthew Allen, an Eversheds senior partner, said during a tour of the firm, “used to be kind of quiet.”
Firms now have Instagram and Twitter accounts that highlight their Brexit expertise, with links to in-house podcasts, white papers and the occasional sales pitch video.
“Brexit for a number of our clients is a problem that they need to solve,” a Linklaters partner, Matthew Keogh, says in a video on the firm’s Brexit page. “And Linklaters is a problem-solving firm.”
Freshfields, the oldest international law firm in the world, has an email address dedicated to Brexit. Fieldfisher operates a Brexit hotline and blog.
Even practice areas that are not linked to Brexit have benefited from it. The Leave vote was followed by a more than 10 percent drop in the British pound, which was a come-hither to foreign companies eyeing potential mergers and acquisitions. Suddenly, a lot of British companies looked like bargains, said Richard Cranfield of Allen & Overy, which features an online “Brexit law microsite.”
“There was a timeout in the summer of 2016,” he said in a phone interview, discussing mergers and acquisition activity. “Then autumn came around, and I think the uncertainty factor was outweighed by continuing low interest rates and the availability of financing.”
The currency’s struggles have also been good for litigators. The efficiency of London’s court system has long made it popular with foreigners filing international lawsuits, and a cheaper currency has improved the cost benefit of litigation.
“Cases that might not have been brought when sterling was strong are being brought,” said Nigel Boardman, a partner at Slaughter and May, which has offices in London, Brussels, Hong Kong and Beijing. “Legal costs become a smaller proportion of total expenses, and the reward is in a different currency.”
The winners here include newly minted attorneys. Client demand has made hiring competitive, which has driven up starting salaries. Last year, the United States-based Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy announced that it would leapfrog rivals and pay first-year associates $190,000. (That’s more than newcomers to Goldman Sachs.) Nearly every large firm in London soon followed suit.
“Of course they did,” said Freddie Lawson of the legal recruitment firm Fox Rodney Search. “It’s an arms race.”
Unlike their clients, law firms don’t need to worry about delays at French ports. Nor are they sweating new tariff regimens, unless it’s on behalf of the executives paying for their labors.
They have, however, been busy Brexit-proofing themselves. With thousands of London-based bankers expected to relocate to Europe in coming years, law firms have been opening or expanding offices in financial capitals all over the Continent. Since the referendum, more than 2,000 British lawyers have joined the Irish Roll of Solicitors — for now, simply a matter of submitting an application — so that they can continue to practice in European Union courts, among other privileges.
Thirteen percent of the entire Roll is now made up of British lawyers who applied since the 2016 vote, a spokeswoman for the Law Society of Ireland said.
How long this frenetic era will last is a matter of some hand-wringing in Britain. If enough businesses relocate, if London loses its hold as Europe’s financial center, decline is inevitable.
“What’s now in the back of everyone’s mind is that Brexit may be great for lawyers in short term,” said Jolyon Maugham, a tax lawyer and anti-Brexit campaigner. “But it’s like you’re a funeral director at the time of the plague. You’re busy in the moment but you fear a bit for your business model.”
Federal prosecutors presented themselves as champions of meritocracy on Tuesday as they announced the indictments of 33 affluent parents who they say sought to buy spots for their children at selective institutions, and of college employees accused of helping them.
“There can be no separate college admissions system for the wealthy,” said Andrew Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts. He described the parents charged in the case as samples from “a catalog of wealth and privilege,” and he added, “For every student admitted through fraud, an honest, genuinely talented student was rejected.”
If the allegations are true, people should be held to account. But this case is not a defense of meritocracy in college admissions.  What the government actually is defending is private property — the right of the colleges to make their own decisions about admissions, and collect the payments.
Indeed, Mr. Lelling himself made clear at a news conference on Tuesday that the government is well aware wealthy people regularly donate money to colleges to secure the matriculation of their children — and the government is not attacking the conduct of that business as usual.
“We’re not talking about donating a building so that a school is more likely to take your son or daughter,” he said at the news conference. “We’re talking about deception and fraud.”
The key distinction here is not just the amount of money, but the recipient. A donation is made to a college, while a bribe is paid to an employee who, in effect, is stealing an admissions slot, hawking it and pocketing the proceeds. (To comply with tax laws, donors also cannot engage in an explicit quid pro quo with a college. The well-rehearsed pas de deux of donations and admissions must be made to appear as a voluntary exchange of gifts, not a binding deal.)
The allegations underscore the urgency many American parents feel about securing a place for their progeny at a selective college. In an era when most Americans are struggling to succeed economically, many of those who have prospered are terrified that their children will not get every opportunity to replicate that success. 
According to the indictment, the organizers of the scheme pitched parents on the idea that everyone else was cheating, too. “The playing field is not fair,” one told Gordon Caplan, co-chairman of the global law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher, in a conversation recorded by the government. Parents were encouraged to take their children to therapists who would certify that they had learning disabilities, so they would have extra time to take the tests, often with a proctor paid to manipulate the results.
This is infuriating for parents and students who chose to play by the rules in seeking college admission — or had no choice but to do so. But no one should be under the illusion those rules are strictly meritocratic. 
Merit is not easily defined. American colleges have long valued athletic ability, a quality rarely considered in college admissions elsewhere in the developed world. Schools similarly may value artistic talent, or other forms of merit not closely correlated with grades or standardized tests. And colleges have a legitimate interest in emphasizing various forms of diversity.
But it seems safe to stipulate that being born to wealthy parents is not by itself meritorious.
Wealthy families often spend heavily to groom their children as candidates for admissions to selective colleges. Private school tuition, tutoring and test preparation classes, campus visits and coaches who help to write personal essays are all advantages largely unavailable to less affluent students, irrespective of innate talent. Paying for tutoring is different from paying someone to take a test for you — but students without money don’t have either option.
Indeed, the very nature of the crimes alleged by the government illustrates the ways in which college admissions are not based only on academic merit. For example, John Vandemoer, the coach of the sailing team at Stanford University, is charged with certifying a landlubber as a sailing team recruit in exchange for a payment to the sailing team of $110,000. The important point here is that Stanford reserves some slots in each class for people who are good at sailing.
Even when considering comparable applicants, colleges favor the wealthy. The widespread practice of preferentially admitting the children of alumni is a fund-raising technique. 
And for the truly wealthy, there is always the option of making a significant donation.
Whether students are admitted because their parents paid for a boathouse, or because their parents bribed the sailing coach, it is still the case that merit alone is not deciding the issue. 
KAMPALA, Uganda — Growing up in suburban Ohio, Rajakumari Jandhyala never imagined she would end up in the oil business, much less on the front line of America’s global competition with China. She spent two decades as a policy adviser on Africa, most recently as an aid official in the Obama administration.
But in 2016, she heard about a call for proposals to build an oil refinery in Uganda that could be the largest in East Africa, and she put together a bid. She landed an investor in Kenya. She recruited oil and gas executives from General Electric. An Italian contractor joined the group of companies that formed a consortium, too.
The main problem was the big advantages enjoyed by the competition: two Chinese energy companies, one of them a state oil giant with Beijing’s support.
China is aggressively seeking investments and contracts around the world, and perhaps nowhere is this more visible than Africa, where Chinese companies have won contracts to build dams, roads, stadiums, airports and railways. In country after country, governments have borrowed heavily from China to pay for these projects.
China’s investments in Africa are central to President Xi Jinping’s signature Belt and Road Initiative, a trillion-dollar program to build infrastructure and extend Beijing’s influence around the globe.
The Trump administration has accused China of engaging in predatory lending aimed at trapping countries in debt, acquiring  strategic assets like ports, and spreading corruption and authoritarian values. In response, the United States has announced an effort to help American businesses compete.
“We’re streamlining international development and finance programs, giving foreign nations a just and transparent alternative to China’s debt-trap diplomacy,” Vice President Mike Pence said in a speech in October. The White House has also unveiled an Africa strategy aimed at China.
The idea is to challenge China’s infrastructure program while also pushing back against its trade practices, cybertheft and expanding military facilities and presence in the Pacific and Indian Oceans. But the threat posed by the Belt and Road Initiative to American interests is debatable, and it is unclear how far the United States should — or can — go to compete. The funds set aside by the Trump administration amount to just a fraction of Beijing’s commitment.
In Africa, American businesses have been largely absent while Chinese companies have put down roots, nurturing powerful allies through both legitimate and illegal means. Some target individual African officials and their family members with cash bribes or deals for services, like legal representation or insurance.
Ms. Jandhyala’s bid for the $4 billion refinery project was a case study in the long odds the United States faces as it tries to go head-to-head against China in infrastructure development — and in the conditions under which American companies could prevail.
The competition came to a head early last year, when Ms. Jandhyala and other consortium executives faced off in a conference room above Lake Victoria against Ugandan officials backing the Chinese companies. Uganda’s strongman president for the past 33 years, Yoweri Museveni, had called the meeting in his compound to try to resolve the bitter dispute.
In a sign of the intense infighting, Uganda’s domestic intelligence agency investigated three officials believed to favor the American consortium and questioned its ability to finance the project, according to a copy of the agency’s report reviewed by The New York Times.
In an April speech, Mr. Museveni praised Western companies for finally “waking up” to Africa. But he also noted that “the Chinese have already woken up — they are really, really, really very active and fast.”
“So why not take advantage of both?” he asked.
The African Great Lakes have long tempted outsiders seeking riches, including the European nations that began plundering the continent in the 19th century. But in 2006, four decades after the end of British rule in Uganda, a prize untapped by the colonialists was discovered: oil deposits by Lake Albert that are among the largest in East Africa, enough to transform parts of impoverished Uganda.
Mr. Museveni’s government negotiated for years with foreign companies before agreeing to a plan for extraction and the construction of a pipeline southeast to the Tanzanian coast, where the oil could be shipped around the world.
But Mr. Museveni also insisted on building a refinery in Uganda to ease the region’s dependence on imported fuel. The contract went to Russians at first, but they withdrew.
Ms. Jandhyala, 53, heard about the plans on a scouting trip to Uganda in 2016, her first visit since working for the Ugandan prime minister’s office a decade earlier as an adviser on a peace process to end an insurgency.
From a shared work space in Washington, she recruited partners for what she hoped would be the first project for Yaatra Ventures, which she founded in 2015 to invest in African infrastructure.
“With G.E., here was an American company that could bring capabilities,” she said.
She was not alone in sensing the opportunity. Uganda received more than 40 proposals to build the refinery.
Leading one bid was Dongsong, a private hydropower and mining company in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou. A proposal made outside formal channels came from the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or CNOOC, the country’s third-largest state oil company.
Both companies had offices in Kampala, the capital of Uganda, and had worked closely for years with the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. Dongsong was building a $620 million phosphate mine and fertilizer factory in eastern Uganda. CNOOC was one of three foreign companies that had struck deals to extract oil.
But their proposals included tough terms, according to interviews and an internal government assessment reviewed by The Times.
Dongsong wanted a sovereign loan guarantee — making the Ugandan government responsible for the project’s debt if it failed — and insisted that 60 percent of labor and materials come from China. CNOOC, meanwhile, wanted greater access to the oil fields themselves.
The American consortium tried to set itself apart, proposing that Uganda’s state oil company and other East African nations own up to 40 percent of a new private company that would build and run the refinery. The consortium would finance the project by selling shares to investors as well as by borrowing, but it was not asking for a sovereign guarantee.
The American proposal meant less debt risk for Uganda, but there were questions about the consortium’s ability to raise the money. The Chinese bids, by contrast, promised immediate financing from Chinese state banks. And at the energy ministry, officials were longtime proponents of Chinese companies.
“At the end of the day, we are developing a lot of capital-intensive projects,” said Robert Kasande, a top energy official. “We need the financing. The Chinese can do that.”
Ugandan soldiers with Kalashnikov rifles stand guard at Dongsong’s headquarters in Kampala, a hilltop villa with a swimming pool and sweeping views of the capital. Lü Weidong, the company’s founder, flies in several times a year.
“My biggest ambition is that when I walk into Ugandan villages, villagers line up and welcome me with applause,” he said at his China office, seated behind a rosewood tea table inlaid with carved dragons. “I hope to drive the industrial development of Uganda, and let the history of East Africa and Uganda remember my name.”
Slim, bald and vegetarian, Mr. Lü personifies Beijing’s “going out” strategy, which encourages Chinese businesses to establish footholds around the world. After focusing on domestic hydropower projects, Dongsong sought opportunities in mining overseas.
Mr. Lü, 50, a former bank manager who belongs to a political advisory body controlled by the Communist Party, said he ventured to Uganda after a chance meeting with the country’s consul general in Guangzhou. Soon, he got the mine deal. “Every decision is made by heaven,” he said.
But Dongsong’s presence in Uganda has been laced with controversy.
In 2016, the Ugandan inspector general’s office concluded that its mining license had been acquired through fraud and recommended it be revoked, according to the inspector general’s report. (Officials never did.)
Dongsong has also been accused of fraud in a lawsuit by one of Mr. Lü’s early partners in Uganda, and it is mired in property disputes around the mine. In 2017, two finance ministry officials were arrested on suspicion of demanding and accepting bribes from Dongsong.
The company has faced problems in China as well. A court in Hebei Province said last year that Mr. Lü had set up a shell company to pay bribes to two state bank officials who were convicted on corruption charges.
Mr. Lü denies any wrongdoing, and his legal problems do not appear to have bothered Ugandan officials. They put Dongsong’s refinery proposal on their short list and traveled to Guangzhou in 2017 to conduct due diligence interviews.
Mr. Lü impressed the team with slick presentations and punctual shuttle buses, an official on the trip said. The team noted that Dongsong’s consortium included a Chinese state company with experience building refineries in Africa.
Dongsong also secured a promise of financing from one of China’s largest state banks — as long as Uganda guaranteed the loan.
The model is common across Africa, where loans from Chinese state banks have financed a construction boom, largely by Chinese companies and workers. These loans generally have tougher terms than World Bank aid packages. Though interest rates can be low, recipients must repay the loans much faster, according to AidData, a research center at William and Mary, a university in Williamsburg, Va.
That has left some nations at high risk of debt distress, analysts say. In Kenya, for example, a Chinese bank could take over a port if Nairobi defaults on a $3.2 billion loan for a railway project.
Uganda’s debt burden is manageable, analysts say, though the country has increased borrowing. From 2000 to 2014, it received at least $1.24 billion in Chinese loans, AidData said. In 2015, it agreed to borrow an additional $1.9 billion for two dams to be built by Chinese companies, and it now seeks a $2.2 billion loan for a railway.
Still, Mr. Museveni and other officials appear to be rethinking the nation’s reliance on China. While Western energy companies have also been implicated in Ugandan corruption cases, China took a hit in the most recent big scandal: In 2016, officials uncovered shoddy construction at the two dams, which remain unfinished.
And yet, Dongsong enjoyed unique advantages in the refinery competition.
Since 2013, it has retained Abmak Associates as legal counsel in Uganda, according to corporate filings.
The law firm’s chief executive is Henry A. Kaliisa, the son of Fred Kabagambe Kaliisa, who for more than two decades was Uganda’s most powerful energy official. He lost his job in the fallout from the dam scandal but still wields enormous influence.
The Ugandan team put the American consortium on its short list as well and also flew to Washington. Ms. Jandhyala and a financing partner, Ronald Mincy, hosted them in a shared work space. One official asked them, “Do you have money?”
In an internal report afterward, the team gave Dongsong a higher rating but also recommended inviting the Americans and Chinese to Kampala for parallel negotiations. The government set a date in June 2017.
But Mr. Lü asked whether Dongsong was the preferred bidder and declined to attend or send anyone. The Ugandan officials decided to enter final talks with just the Americans after they appeared.
In a letter to the Ugandan energy minister reviewed by The Times, Mr. Lü responded by threatening to challenge the process.
Around that time, the other Chinese bidder, CNOOC, quietly emerged with a late push to build the refinery and take control of additional oil fields. (CNOOC did not respond to written questions on the project.)
Ms. Jandhyala sought help in Washington.
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the American government’s development finance agency, could not commit to the kind of billion-dollar financing offered by Chinese banks, but it provided a letter saying it would consider lending $250 million and providing loan insurance.
“That lent confidence to other people,” Ms. Jandhyala said.
The Commerce Department also determined the project was in the “national interest,” giving the United States Embassy in Uganda permission to lobby for it.
The United States ambassador, Deborah Malac, said she made the case for the American consortium with the energy minister, Irene Muloni, whom she described as resistant. She also spoke to Mr. Museveni a dozen times, she said. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross sent two letters and called.
“There were a lot of interested parties beholden to the Chinese who tried to derail the process,” Ms. Malac said.
Among the skeptics was Sam Kutesa, the foreign minister, she said.
Last December, a New York court convicted a representative of a Chinese energy company of paying bribes to African officials, including $500,000 to Mr. Kutesa. In an interview, Mr. Kutesa described the payment as a donation to his foundation and said he did not have a strong view on who should win the refinery project.
In Uganda, all major decisions end up before Mr. Museveni. Officials jockey for his ear, and the president is adept at playing them off one another.
That gave the Americans an opening. Despite naysaying by energy officials, Mr. Museveni liked the idea of balancing the Americans and Chinese in the oil industry, and he was intrigued by G.E.’s involvement, Ugandan officials said.
Last January, he called the meeting at Lake Victoria and forced energy officials to sit down with Ms. Jandhyala and her partners. He then got cabinet approval. The deal was signed in April.
“I think the big lesson is that we have to be aggressive,” Ms. Malac said. “We have to be willing, as the U.S. government, to find our opportunities to advocate on behalf of our companies.”
Abigail Grace, a researcher at the Center for a New American Society who worked on the White House National Security Council, said American diplomats around the globe should be trained to deal with China issues.
“This example shows that despite the idea that China might prevail, we can win if we get our act together,” she said.
In October, President Trump signed a bill creating a new agency to replace the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and give out $60 billion in financing — double the previous amount, though still a fraction of what China has pledged to spend.
Meanwhile, G.E. has begun selling its stake in the oil field services company in Ms. Jandhyala’s consortium. Its exit could weaken Ugandan confidence in the deal, and there is still uncertainty about the group’s ability to secure financing.
The Chinese appear to have moved on. Mr. Lü said he planned to open a mine in Mozambique. And in September, CNOOC got what it really wanted: Uganda agreed to give it a new parcel to explore at Lake Albert.
At the Beijing signing, Mr. Museveni and Mr. Kutesa smiled as they shook hands with Chinese executives.
Before the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, before the News of the World tabloid broke into voice-mail messages and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano.
Mr. Pellicano was a private investigator in Hollywood, a man who drove around town with a baseball bat in his trunk and who was very good at uncovering people’s secrets. He ran a vast surveillance operation out of his office with a sprawling network of wiretaps. If you needed an unpleasant issue to go away, or a nasty tidbit to improve your standing in a divorce or business dispute, he was the go-to guy.
He wiretapped the actors Sylvester Stallone and Keith Carradine, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love, among many others. He conducted an illegal criminal background check on Garry Shandling, threatened a journalist and, according to testimony at his trial, even offered to have a producer murdered, his body buried in the desert. He had been behind bars since 2003.
On Friday, the private eye who intimately knew Hollywood’s underbelly — and, some would say, was its leading man — walked out of a Los Angeles federal prison at the end of his sentence and was free for the first time in more than 15 years.
Though it has been a long time since Hollywood last heard much from the man who heard its private conversations, he is hardly forgotten, and some of those he investigated were dreading this day.
“It’s certainly not comforting,” said Jude Green, who testified that Mr. Pellicano threatened her during her divorce. “I’m looking for peace and harmony — I’ve had enough excitement.”
Friends and former employers have not forgotten him, either. Some have contributed to a trust fund worth “in the tens of thousands” to help Mr. Pellicano get by, according to a person familiar with the fund who declined to be identified because it was a private effort. Requests for an interview with Mr. Pellicano, placed through a lawyer, went unanswered.
Mr. Pellicano, who turned 75 on Friday, was originally known as an audio expert from Chicago. He was used as an expert witness by prosecutors and hired by The New York Times in 1979 to determine if the voice on a recording belonged to the former shah of Iran.
By the 1990s, he had set up shop as a private investigator in Los Angeles who wouldn’t open a case without a $25,000 retainer and could charge clients hundreds of thousands of dollars. A former employee testified that in his offices on Sunset Boulevard, a Los Angeles police officer on the take would swing by to pick up stacks of hundred dollar bills, and a half-dozen iMacs sat recording phone calls in his “war room.” As recently as last year, he teased in an interview with the The Hollywood Reporter that he might — just might — have Mafia connections.
“If you tried to connect me to organized crime, you probably could get close — but no cigar,” he said.
In 2002, his career began to unravel spectacularly. A reporter named Anita Busch, who had written for The New York Times and The Los Angeles Times, had recently published articles about the waning career of Michael Ovitz, one of the founders of the Creative Artists Agency and a former president of the Walt Disney Company. That summer, she found what appeared to be a bullet hole in her windshield, along with a dead fish and a rose on a tin tray on the hood of her car. A note was taped to her car that said, “Stop.”
She later sued Mr. Ovitz for hiring Mr. Pellicano. According to court documents, she said that her phone had been tapped, her computer hacked and her hard drive erased. She said that two men in a Mercedes had tried to run her over and that she had been warned that someone planned to blow up her car. Mr. Ovitz planned to argue that the fish was Steven Seagal’s fault — Ms. Busch had been reporting about Mr. Seagal as well — though the F.B.I. found no persuasive evidence that the actor was involved, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
She and Mr. Ovitz settled out of court. He did not respond to a request for comment.
While investigating the threat against Ms. Busch, the authorities found grenades and C-4 explosives in a safe in Mr. Pellicano’s office. He was sentenced to 30 months on weapons charges. In 2008, he was convicted again, this time on more than 70 charges including racketeering, wire fraud and wiretapping, and he had been in prison until this day.
“My code word when I would call the F.B.I.,” Ms. Green said, “was C-4.”
Ms. Green said that Mr. Pellicano cornered her outside a Santa Monica, Calif., dog groomer where she had taken her Shih Tzu for a haircut. He blocked her car and got in her face, then followed her to a Peet’s Coffee, where he boxed her in again and then shoved her inside the store. She said that she yelled to make a scene and fled.
Mr. Pellicano often represented himself in various cases, preferring to refer to himself in the third person. This sometimes created a difficult situation for witnesses and a variety of odd scenes.
Neville Johnson represented the plaintiffs in several lawsuits against Mr. Pellicano and other organizations, including the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police departments, where Mr. Pellicano had officers feeding him confidential information.
Mr. Johnson recalled that during a deposition at a federal prison in Big Spring, Tex., Mr. Pellicano would say things like “I hereby instruct myself not to answer.”
That deposition got off to an inauspicious beginning. As Mr. Pellicano sat in the prison cafeteria in his jailhouse uniform, the court reporter instructed him to raise his right hand and asked if he swore to tell the truth.
“He said ‘no,’” Mr. Johnson recalled.
In addition to his other recordings, Mr. Pellicano was fond of taping his own phone calls — including incriminating ones — and many of those were recovered by investigators. But the F.B.I. suspected there were even more recordings, because on the tapes they did find, Mr. Pellicano spoke about storing some audio files outside his office.
Or so said an F.B.I. agent, Jonathan Mosser, when he was cross-examined by Mr. Pellicano at his trial:
Mr. Pellicano: Who was the person that told you that Mr. Pellicano took audio files and stored them off site?
Agent Mosser: Mr. Pellicano.
Mr. Pellicano: Mr. Pellicano?
Mr. Mosser: Yes. 
Mr. Pellicano: When did Mr. Pellicano tell you that he stored information off site?
Mr. Mosser: In the audio recordings.
Those tapes were never recovered.
Mr. Pellicano very likely could have faced less time in prison if he had cooperated with the authorities, but he never talked. In his interview last year with The Hollywood Reporter, he discussed “omerta,” the Mafia code of silence, and the value of keeping secrets. Among them, he said, were Michael Jackson’s. Mr. Pellicano worked for Mr. Jackson in the 1990s but said he quit when he learned what The Hollywood Reporter described as “truths even darker than those alleged in Jackson’s molestation scandal.” The Jackson family and estate have denied all allegations of sexual misconduct against him.
Mr. Pellicano emerges into a world of technology and surveillance vastly different from the one he left behind. With the landscape so changed, and his private investigator license revoked, it is not clear how he will make money now. Lawyers who sued Mr. Pellicano usually gave up because he had no money to pay any judgments.
He does, however, emerge with his secrets, and whatever value they possess. In a Newsweek interview in 2011, he claimed that he had offers to publish an autobiography, but that he could not write it because the clamor of prison was too distracting.
Bert Fields, a prominent entertainment lawyer in Los Angeles who had worked with Mr. Pellicano over many years, recalled him as doing “superb work.” (Mr. Fields was investigated in connection with Mr. Pellicano’s activities but said he had not used any wiretaps in any of his cases, and he was not charged.)
Mr. Fields said he made a “minor contribution” to Mr. Pellicano’s post-release trust fund.
“He served his time and paid his dues, and I felt it was appropriate to make a contribution,” he said. “It had absolutely nothing with trying to keep him quiet or anything like that, and if anyone were to say that, I would probably sue them.”
RALEIGH, N.C. — The chief strategist for a Republican congressional candidate at the center of an election fraud inquiry told North Carolina officials on Tuesday that he had no knowledge of any wrongdoing, attempting to distance the campaign from the illegal machinations that drew the attention of state investigators.
“I care deeply about the integrity of our democracy, and I’m not going to put up with that junk,” said the strategist, Andy Yates, appearing confident, careful and sometimes indignant during the second day of an evidentiary hearing about a voter turnout operation in the state’s Ninth Congressional District. The district is home to the last undecided House race of 2018.
Mr. Yates’s turn on the witness stand came a day after Kim Strach, executive director of the North Carolina State Board of Elections, said that investigators had found “a coordinated, unlawful and substantially resourced absentee ballot scheme” that benefited Mark Harris, the Republican candidate who hired Mr. Yates.
Mr. Harris had a 905-vote lead over his Democratic opponent, Dan McCready, when state officials refused to certify his victory because of concerns about fraud.
[A state official shared some of the election board’s conclusions on Monday.]
Although Republicans have held the Ninth District’s House seat for more than a half century, it was in peril last fall, when Democrats were on the brink of making substantial gains in Congress and the party had fielded a candidate they felt was among the strongest in memory in the Ninth. But the election board, which has the power to decide whether to order a new election, found that a Republican operative oversaw an elaborately concealed get-out-the-vote effort they came to believe was endemic with fraud and misconduct to benefit Mr. Harris.
According to Ms. Strach and the testimony that followed on Monday, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., the political contractor for the Harris campaign, orchestrated the effort. It included the handwritten completion of some ballots and, in violation of North Carolina law, the in-person collection of absentee ballots. In Bladen County, where Mr. Dowless primarily worked, Mr. Harris won 61 percent of the received absentee ballots, even though registered Republicans accounted for only 19 percent of the ballots submitted.
According to Mr. Yates, who did not invoke his constitutional protection against self-incrimination or testify with immunity, Mr. Dowless repeatedly and explicitly pledged that his work was within the confines of state law, which generally forbids third parties from handling absentee ballots.
“Mr. Dowless told me that he knew it was illegal to collect ballots and that he told all his workers that it was illegal to collect ballots, that they would never collect ballots, that he never touched or handled a ballot,” Mr. Yates said. “I was shocked and disturbed to learn that that appears that it was not the case. If that had ever become evident to me in the campaign, I would have immediately cut off all contact.”
Still, Mr. Yates’s testimony risked feeding perceptions that the Harris campaign was negligent, by design or happenstance, in its dealings with Mr. Dowless, who had convictions for perjury and insurance fraud and had been the subject of scrutiny — but not prosecution — for his political work. The testimony, though, was a lengthy account of some of the Harris campaign’s interactions with Mr. Dowless, whose hiring was personally directed by the candidate.
Mr. Harris has not been accused of personal wrongdoing, but investigators found that his campaign financed the illicit effort, with tens of thousands of dollars that passed through Mr. Yates’s consulting firm. On Tuesday, Mr. Yates acknowledged that he had been in regular contact with Mr. Dowless, and that Mr. Harris himself had spoken with Mr. Dowless regularly. But Mr. Yates asserted that he had not been aware of any misconduct and did not believe Mr. Harris had either.
Mr. Harris is expected to testify as soon as Wednesday. On Monday, Mr. Dowless, through his lawyer, declined to testify.
But testimony showed that Mr. Dowless operated with a certain autonomy in southeastern North Carolina, several hours from the Charlotte area where Mr. Harris lived and Mr. Yates worked. Mr. Yates, for instance, said he did not demand receipts from Mr. Dowless before reimbursing expenses, and he acknowledged that he had not conducted a criminal-background check on the man who was running a crucial prong of a high-stakes campaign.
Lawyers for Mr. McCready have asserted that Mr. Dowless was hired precisely because of his “proven history of generating a strikingly high, and downright suspicious, share of absentee-by-mail votes.” On Tuesday, Marc E. Elias, a lawyer for Mr. McCready, pressed Mr. Yates over what a candidate’s hiring of a person like Mr. Dowless might indicate.
“It would make me question their judgment,” Mr. Yates replied after a long pause.
Minutes earlier, Mr. Yates said he would not have hired Mr. Dowless had he known of a record that included a perjury conviction.
“I would have believed that you couldn’t trust them,” said Mr. Yates, who added that there would have been a political cost if such a hiring ever became public.
Even after two days of hearings, the scope and consequences of Mr. Dowless’s efforts remain somewhat unclear. Mr. Dowless and his associates were linked to more than 1,000 absentee ballot requests, but a crucial witness for the state testified that she had handled only 30 to 40 ballots herself.
Republicans maintained that, given that only a handful of ballots had been provably spoiled, the state board did not need to call for a new vote.
“If at the end of the day the board were to throw out an election with a margin of 905 over 100 votes, I think it’d be unprecedented, and I think it’d be dangerous,” Dallas Woodhouse, the executive director of the North Carolina Republican Party, said on Tuesday morning. “I’m not saying they have to have 905, but it’s got to be somewhere in the ballpark.”
State law does not set a specific threshold and instead gives regulators wide discretion. The state board may order a new election if four of its five members conclude that “irregularities or improprieties occurred to such an extent that they taint the results of the entire election and cast doubt on its fairness.”
Democrats are betting on the board, which includes three Democrats and two Republicans, adopting a broad view of the statute, and on Tuesday the North Carolina Democratic Party eagerly circulated an editorial from The Charlotte Observer, the primary newspaper in the state’s largest city, with a headline that declared the “hearing isn’t over, but it’s over.”
“Ninth District voters,” the newspaper wrote, “deserve the confidence of an election free from fraud.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
In 2017, the Manhattan district attorney’s office received a tip: Unusually large amounts of cash were being withdrawn from A.T.M.s throughout the city, including a series of transactions at a special teller machine that converted cryptocurrency to cash. 
Prosecutors did not quite know what they had, but worked to identify precisely who had withdrawn the money, which exceeded $1 million.
What resulted was a two-year investigation that uncovered a multimillion-dollar drug operation on the dark web, a corner of the internet people can visit anonymously with special browsers and make purchases with virtual currencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum. 
In recent years, drug trafficking on the dark web has exploded, as drug traffickers and other criminals have discovered that its anonymity makes it ideal for illicit transactions using cryptocurrencies. 
“We have a cybercrime crisis that’s not yet fully appreciated,” Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, said at a news conference. 
Prosecutors said three New Jersey men were behind an online store called Sinmed that sold and shipped illegal drugs to buyers in 43 states, Puerto Rico and Washington. Their products included heroin-laced fentanyl, counterfeit Xanax tablets, ketamine, LSD, the date-rape drug GHB, steroids and methamphetamine. 
The men — Chester Anderson, 44; Jarrette Codd, 41; and Ronald MacCarty, 51 — then converted at least $2.3 million in cryptocurrency from their sales by using it to load prepaid debit cards and withdrawing cash from A.T.M.s, according to an indictment unsealed on Tuesday.
The three men used Mr. MacCarty’s cellphone store in Asbury Park, N.J. — The Wireless Spot — to house a drug factory with two industrial power mixers, punch dies to imprint pills with brand names and four pill presses, each of which could produce 16,000 pills per hour, prosecutors said. 
Sinmed advertised its narcotics using two storefronts on a dark web shopping site called Dream Market, where, like its infamous predecessor, the Silk Road, a plethora of illegal drugs and other goods can be bought, the authorities said. 
Investigators from the Manhattan district attorney’s office posed as buyers on the dark web and purchased over 10,000 tablets of counterfeit Xanax from Sinmed, along with significant quantities of GHB and ketamine, Mr. Vance said. 
Federal investigators from the Secret Service, the Department of Homeland Security and the United States Postal Service also took part in the investigation, along with the Middlesex County prosecutor’s office and the South Brunswick Police.
To make their deliveries seem innocuous, Sinmed labeled its drug-laden envelopes with the return addresses of Manhattan law firms, real estate brokers and talent entertainment agencies, prosecutors said. 
Mr. Anderson and Mr. MacCarty used a shell company to buy large quantities of microcrystalline cellulose, which is used to make pharmaceutical pills, as well as alprazolam, the active ingredient in Xanax, from chemical supply companies in China, prosecutors said. 
The materials were used to cook up massive quantities of counterfeit drugs. When the authorities raided Mr. Codd’s home in Jamesburg, N.J., this month, they found five large orange buckets filled to the brim with at least 420,000 pills of fake Xanax, worth between $2 million and $4 million on the street. Investigators also found a “cookbook” with recipes for several illicit drugs, including GHB.
Mr. Anderson, Mr. Codd and Mr. MacCarty were arrested at separate locations in Central New Jersey on April 4, and arraigned Tuesday afternoon in Manhattan Supreme Court on charges of conspiracy and money laundering. Mr. Anderson was also charged with drug trafficking. 
“These defendants perpetrated a yearslong drug-dealing enterprise and used sophisticated tech to reach customers across the United States,” Dan Haier, an assistant district attorney, told the court.
All three men entered not guilty pleas. Justice Maxwell Wiley set bail at $1 million for Mr. Anderson and $500,000 each for Mr. Codd and Mr. MacCarty. 
Prosecutors said Mr. Anderson, whom they described as a ringleader, took extensive precautions to avoid detection, renting cars to drop off his drug deliveries, sleeping at hotels and using a GPS jamming device that scrambled a tracking device investigators placed on one of his cars.
Mr. Anderson, a software engineer, was convicted of attempted armed robbery in New Jersey in 2014 and was diverted from prison into drug treatment. His lawyer, Taylor Koss, said Mr. Anderson has been sober for five years and committed the robbery while in the throes of drug addiction. 
Neither Mr. Codd nor Mr. MacCarty has criminal convictions. 
Mr. Haier said during court proceedings that the opacity of dark web transactions in cryptocurrencies had hampered prosecutors’ efforts to find out how much money Sinmed took in and to whom it sold drugs. 
“We are still attempting to locate cash and cryptocurrency that were profits of this enterprise,” Mr. Haier said. 
Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.
1. The government shutdown lives on, but there have been hints of movement.
President Trump is still insisting on $5.7 billion for his wall on the southern border, and he announced Saturday that he would extend deportation protections for some undocumented immigrants in exchange for the wall money.
But it looked unlikely that Democrats, who had added more than $1 billion in border-related spending to their funding bills to try to get him to relent, would budge. Eight hundred thousand federal employees are still going without pay.
Separately, the president is set to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for a second time, in late February. Their dialogue has eased tensions but hasn’t led to progress in eliminating North Korea’s nuclear arsenal.
_____
2. Robert Mueller is among the quietest figures in Washington.
That changed briefly when the special counsel’s team issued a rare public statement disputing a BuzzFeed News report that said President Trump had directed Michael Cohen, above, his longtime fixer, to lie to Congress about negotiations to build a skyscraper in Moscow.
The explosive report had led to a flurry of talk among Democrats about possible impeachment proceedings if the details proved to be accurate.
This all came against the backdrop of confirmation hearings for William Barr, the president’s nominee for attorney general. Mr. Barr vowed to let Mr. Mueller finish his inquiry, and he seems all but assured of confirmation.
_____
3. Britain is paralyzed over Brexit.
Prime Minister Theresa May suffered a humiliating defeat over her plan to withdraw from the European Union. She then narrowly survived a no-confidence vote in Parliament.
No one knows what will happen next, and our reporter Ellen Barry found that precisely one person seems to be having fun: John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons.
From his silk-canopied chair, she wrote, he “looked out over Britain’s squabbling Parliament and brayed, ‘Order! Order!’ in that undrownoutable voice, something like an air-raid siren with postnasal drip.”
Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.
_____
4. At least 66 people died in a gas explosion north of Mexico City after thieves ruptured a pipeline. Above, soldiers stood guard afterward.
Mexico’s president vowed to keep up his crackdown on fuel theft: “We will not stop. We will eradicate this.”
Elsewhere in the world, Shabab militants stormed a luxury hotel and office complex in Nairobi, Kenya, killing at least 21. And in Syria, an Islamic State suicide bomber killed at least 15 people, including four Americans.
_____
5. An enormous snowstorm raced across the northern United States this weekend.
The wintry conditions led to thousands of canceled flights and many spoiled plans for the three-day weekend from Kansas to New England. Above, snow was cleared in Chicago’s Millennium Park.
But hey, at least (most of us) aren’t relying on horses anymore. Take a look at these early New York Times pictures to see the havoc a blizzard could visit on the city in the late 1800s and early 1900s.
_____
6. The Trump administration most likely separated thousands more children from their parents at the southern border than was previously believed.
That’s according to a report that found that the official count of 2,700 migrant children began only after a court order in June. The real number may never be known. Above, a mother and son reunited after 34 days.
While the policy was framed as a zero-tolerance decision to prosecute those who entered the country illegally, it caused agonizing uncertainty for thousands of migrant families. An A.C.L.U. lawyer said, “This report confirms what we suspected: This cruel family separation practice was way bigger than the administration let on.”
_____
7. Thirty thousand teachers went on strike in Los Angeles.
In addition to demanding higher pay, smaller class sizes and more support staff, they are trying to combat the spread of charter schools, which the union says siphon off students and money from public schools. Prominent Democrats are supportive of the teachers, but deeply divided on the charter school question.
Separately, the second anniversary of the Women’s March brought smaller crowds as the movement has weathered a storm of controversy.
_____
8. Older white men have always defined the halls of power. Ever so slowly, that’s changing.
Our portraits series shows how the 2018 midterm elections accelerated this shift in representation. For the first time, more than 100 women serve in the House of Representatives — out of 435 seats — and members of color were elected in more states than ever before. Above, from left, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Representative Carol Miller of West Virginia, and Representative Deb Haaland of New Mexico.
The election results gave women something to celebrate this weekend at the women’s marches all over the country. Though there was some controversy in the movement, and the crowds were smaller, the spirit was still alive.
_____
9. Shh.
Residents of Cremona, Italy, are hearing a lot of that lately. The city, the birthplace of the world’s finest string instruments, has thrown itself behind an effort to preserve every note before the instruments are too fragile to play.
That requires absolute silence in the cobblestoned area around the auditorium where the sounds of Stradivarius instruments are being recorded. The streets are shut down, and a dropped glass or even the sound of a woman’s high heels clicking make for an “an auditory nightmare,” said one of the people behind the project. Above, the Museo del Violino, which is helping with the project._____
10. Finally, our Best Weekend Reads include disconcerting imagery from Kazakhstan, where a warming climate is rapidly shrinking the Tuyuksu glacier, above. As glaciers melt worldwide, the hundreds of millions who rely on them for water will suffer.
Trying to focus more on what you can control? Read Mary Pipher’s essay for Opinion about the joy of being a woman in her 70s, by which point, she writes, “many of us have learned that happiness is a skill and a choice.”
Others are happy and they can’t help it. Like Sphen and Magic, two gay male penguins in Australia who are contentedly and diligently raising a baby together.
For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these eight new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.
Have a great week.
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
To the Editor:
Re “As More Stores Go Cashless, Lawmakers Push Back” (Business Day, Feb. 22):
The banning of cash in retail establishments is understandable from the stores’ perspective. Among other things, it eliminates the need to deal in cash, which requires trips to and from the bank, cash registers, employees who still know how to make change, and the risk of embezzlement and robbery. No wonder stores are willing to pay credit card issuers up to 5 percent off the top. 
But for the disadvantaged who have not established a credit rating or who have other impediments to obtaining a credit or debit card, like undocumented immigrants, it can be a great hardship. And what meaning is left in the statement on every dollar bill and on all the higher denominations as well: “This note is legal tender for all debts, public and private”? 
If that statement is the law, how can any store refuse to accept cash?
George J. Grumbach Jr.New York
LONDON — The U.S. government has expressed concern about allegations of misused funds at the U.N.'s AIDS agency after a report by The Associated Press this week revealed ongoing financial and sexual misconduct problems at the agency.
In a statement late Tuesday, the U.S. State Department said the government remains "committed to ensuring that UNAIDS has a clear and robust approach to eliminating all forms of harassment" within the organization.
Earlier this week, the AP reported the U.N. AIDS agency remains embroiled in unfinished misconduct investigations involving a whistleblower, Martina Brostrom, who went public last year with claims she was sexually assaulted by a top deputy.
"We are concerned any time that there are potential allegations of fraud or misuse of funds," the U.S. spokesperson said. The U.S. is UNAIDS' biggest donor.
Confidential documents obtained by the AP show UNAIDS is grappling with previously unreported allegations that Brostrom and her former supervisor may have taken part in "fraudulent practices and misuse of travel funds."
The ongoing turmoil is a damaging distraction for an agency at the center of multibillion-dollar, taxpayer-funded U.N. efforts to end the global AIDS epidemic by 2030. The virus affects more than 37 million people worldwide and kills more than 900,000 people every year.
"The U.S. highly values transparency and due diligence and in this context, supports the timely completion of all investigations," said the U.S. spokesperson, who added that the government remains "committed" to a strong U.N. AIDS agency. The U.S. stopped short of saying whether any funding would be withheld.
After Brostrom's public charges that she was sexually assaulted last year, an independent review of UNAIDS found there was a "toxic" atmosphere at the agency and that it was plagued by "defective leadership." UNAIDS chief Michel Sidibe announced he would leave in June — six months before his term was set to end.
Sweden, UNAIDS' no. 2 donor, announced last year it would suspend its funding to the agency until the leadership had changed.
"There is a massive backlash in the U.S. and the U.K. against multilateralism, and all of this helps fuel the argument, of why should we fund these far-away agencies when we have these other problems at home?" said Devi Sridhar, a global public health expert at the University of Edinburgh.
She said that agencies need to be more transparent when such problems occur and take immediate steps to resolve them.
"If these agencies cannot account for how they spend their funds, then there's no reason for countries to donate to them," Sridhar said. "These ongoing allegations certainly don't help and just add fuel to the fire."
____
AP Diplomatic Writer Matthew Lee in Washington contributed to this report.
People are waiting in long, winding lines at gas stations in Mexico City. Thousands of troops have been deployed to guard pipelines across Mexico. Fuel is being diverted to tankers accompanied by armed vehicles. 
These are the signs of a growing crisis in Mexico, where the government’s newly assertive tactics to combat fuel theft from pipelines have set off days of shortages in the capital and at least seven central states. 
So how did the country get here?
Criminal gangs known as huachicoleros have long targeted the thousands of miles of pipeline that run through Mexico, often in rural areas, carrying gasoline from refineries to distribution points. They tap into a pipeline, siphon gas and resell it, or they work with corrupt insiders to steal the fuel.
The cheap, stolen fuel has created an alternative market in many rural communities, but it has also cost the government dearly. President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said some 60 billion pesos, or $3.14 billion, in fuel was stolen last year.
These illegal taps can also be dangerous. When a pipeline blew up in central Puebla State in 2010, at least 27 people were killed, many dozens were injured and homes were destroyed.
On Wednesday, the pipeline that runs from the coastal city of Tuxpan to Mexico City was sabotaged in retaliation for the new government crackdown, reducing the supply of fuel to the capital, the president said. 
As part of the crackdown begun by Mr. López Obrador, who took office in December, pipelines vulnerable to theft have been shut and the fuel has been diverted to guarded trucks, a slow and logistically complicated process. 
Pemex, the state-run energy company, said the new transportation methods had caused delays in the delivery of gasoline to service stations. The long lines, it said, did not result from actual fuel shortages.
“Pemex appeals to the general public’s support and understanding,” the company said in a statement. “These operations will undoubtedly translate into benefits for all Mexicans.”
Mr. López Obrador said Friday that 4,000 military and police personnel had been deployed to secure strategically important portions of pipeline, which stretch out some 375 miles and ordinarily transport around 400,000 barrels of gasoline per day. 
He did not say when fuel would resume flowing through the closed sections, but vowed to continue with his efforts to stem the thefts. The thefts have been a result in part of the “incompetence or complacency” of local authorities, he said.
“That is what we are fighting against,” Mr. López Obrador said, “because corruption cannot be allowed.” He, too, said there was enough fuel in the country: “It is a matter of distribution only.” 
Despite the long lines at the pumps, Mr. López Obrador showed no sign of changing his approach. He said the amount of stolen fuel had dropped significantly as a result of his tactics.
“I have said it before, and I’ll say it again: Let’s see who gets tired first, because we will stop the fuel theft,” Mr. López Obrador said.
Metropolitan Mexico City, with a population of more than 20 million, has had days of shortages. Gas stations have been forced to close, businesses reliant on fuel for transportation have suffered, and millions in losses have been reported. 
While the president’s strategy may have slowed thefts in the short term, experts say the current strategy is unsustainable. 
Asael Nuche, risk director for Etellekt, a consultancy that studies the issue, said in a column published in El Heraldo de Mexico that the government’s moves were costly and ultimately insecure.
“There is no method of transportation more efficient and economical than the pipelines, therefore the only option for the federal government is retaking control of them,” he wrote. 
Business people say the fuel crisis has already been harmful. Gustavo de Hoyos, the leader of Mexico’s employers association, Coparmex, said at a news conference on Thursday that a survey of 3,500 businesses had found losses of more than $60 million.
For now, drivers are resigned to the waits, but tempers are fraying. “This isn’t the way to do it,” said Javier Cruz, a taxi driver who said he had spent three hours before reaching the pump. Who did he blame? Mr. López Obrador.
Paulina Villegas contributed reporting from Tijuana, Mexico, and Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City.
PARIS — France will push for the European Union to adopt a regulatory framework on cryptocurrencies similar to the one it brought in last week at a national level, becoming the first major country to do so, French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said on Monday. 
The French parliament last week approved a financial sector law that included rules aimed at tempting cryptocurrency issuers and traders to set up in France by giving them some official recognition, while ensuring the country can tax their profits.
"I will propose to my European partners that we set up a single regulatory framework on crypto-assets inspired by the French experience," Le Maire said in Paris at an event on blockchain technology. "Our model is the right one."
The French government's new cryptocurrency bill - the first of its kind adopted by a major nation - will allow firms that want to issue new cryptocurrencies or trade existing ones to apply for a certification. 
In most of the world, cryptocurrencies are still either totally unregulated or banned. 
The certification will be granted by the French market regulator for those who want it, and issuers, traders, custodians and investors will have to pay taxes on profits they make on those securities. 
The goal is to establish a market in Paris for companies raising capital in this way, allowing France to grab a slice of the expanding business while giving it some oversight of a niche which some fear could be a target for speculators. 
The European Commission has recently launched a feasibility study on how to regulate the cryptocurrency markets, though no legislation is expected at least until late 2019 as the mandate of the current administration is ending. 
On unregulated markets, where no rules apply, investors are left totally unprotected if things go sour. 
Under France's regulatory proposals, authorities would verify who is behind a new coin's issuance or a trading platform, and check the companies' business plans and anti-money laundering rules. 
The specific requirements companies need to abide by to get the regulatory stamp of approval are still to be defined by government decrees.
The certification will give investors basic guarantees against outright fraud, but will not protect them against losses. 
 (Reporting by Inti Landauro; Additional reporting by Francesco Guarascio; Editing by Jan Harvey)
MOUNT HOLLY, N.J. — The Latest on the sentencing of a homeless man in a GoFundMe scam (all times local):
12:15 p.m.
A homeless veteran has been sentenced to five years' probation for conspiring with a New Jersey couple to scam GoFundMe donors out of $400,000.
Johnny Bobbitt was given the sentence Friday as part of a plea agreement reached with county prosecutors last month.
He must meet conditions including inpatient drug treatment and cooperation with prosecutors against his co-defendants. If he violates those conditions, he will be sentenced to five years in prison with no possibility of parole for at least 18 months.
Bobbitt made no statement in court.
He admitted helping Katelyn McClure and Mark D'Amico, McClure's boyfriend at the time, make up a story in 2017 about Bobbitt giving McClure $20 when she was stranded on a highway in Philadelphia.
Prosecutors contend a GoFundMe campaign ostensibly set up to help Bobbitt was a lie intended to enrich all three. McClure and D'Amico allegedly used the money to buy a BMW and take expensive vacations.
McClure and Bobbitt have also pleaded guilty to federal charges and await sentencing. D'Amico and McClure were charged last fall in state court with theft and conspiracy but have yet to be indicted by a grand jury.
D'Amico has denied wrongdoing.
___
1:15 a.m.
The homeless veteran who admitted to conspiring with a New Jersey couple in a GoFundMe scam that raised more than $400,000 faces sentencing.
Johnny Bobbitt is scheduled to appear in court in southern New Jersey Friday morning.
He pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy to commit theft by deception and has been accepted into a drug program as part of his plea deal.
Prosecutors say Bobbitt and the couple made up a story in 2017 about him giving $20 to help Katelyn McClure when her car ran out of gas.
Bobbitt, McClure and McClure's then-boyfriend, Mark D'Amico, garnered more than 14,000 GoFundMe donors.
Authorities began investigating last year after Bobbitt sued the couple for allegedly not giving him the money.
McClure has pleaded guilty to one federal count of wire fraud conspiracy.
It would be hard to build a more damning case against the cash-for-visas program than Hudson Yards.
Manhattan’s gleaming new $25 billion development was financed in part through EB-5, a preferential immigration program that luxury developers have come to adore. This once-obscure category allows foreign nationals to purchase a family pack of visas by investing capital in job-creating businesses in the United States. The price is $1 million. But EB-5 offers a lower-cost option (for $500,000) to visa applicants who invest in projects in rural or distressed urban areas. It’s meant as an incentive for investment in impoverished America.
With its angular skyscrapers, luxury retailers and bizarre basket-shaped playground, Hudson Yards is the opposite of troubled — financially — although architecture critics have pounced on its placelessness. Yet New York State authorities enabled Related, the project’s developer, to raise more than $1.2 billion in EB-5 financing at the lower-tier rate reserved for urban areas with severe unemployment. As I recently reported in CityLab, the state allowed Hudson Yards to qualify for this designation by gerrymandering a map that connects this elite West Side haven to public housing projects in Central and East Harlem.
Much of the nation badly needs investment. And place-based incentive programs like EB-5 could lure capital and jobs to distressed areas that have yet to recover from the foreclosure epidemic after the 2008 housing crash — if the program worked properly. Hudson Yards is emblematic of how the EB-5 visa program has been corrupted by developers and state authorities to divert capital from places that need it to those that don’t.
One of the reasons this happens is states draw the boundaries for Targeted Employment Areas, the economic zones with a lower threshold for investment visas — $500,000 instead of $1 million. Investing in projects within these rural or low-resource urban areas is a good deal for visa applicants, since these visas cost less. Virtually all EB-5 investments are given at the discounted rate in targeted urban zones. It’s supposed to help struggling places in America. But New York, Texas, California and most other states tilt the system in luxury’s favor. Sometimes this means stringing together dozens of census tracts in long spaghetti-noodle maps to qualify luxury projects as falling within poor urban districts. The Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles, the Resorts World Las Vegas and the Wharf in Washington are among the many projects that have raked in hundreds of millions in cash-for-visas financing.
Gerrymandering is only one thing that needs to change. The cash-for-visas program has garnered an impressive record of lawsuits and indictments for fraud and dozens of possible breaches of national security. While the program falls under the purview of the Department of Homeland Security, oversight is lax, and real estate is not its explicit domain. Reforming EB-5 is a vital priority, but legislation to fix this program is most likely just as doomed as any other immigration bill. According to New York University’s Stern Center for Real Estate Finance Research, no proposal for a fix in Congress has reached a vote in committee.
Still, the case for reform is urgent. It is not just that scammers are gaming the system. Or that it heaps risk on foreign investors, mostly Chinese nationals who face yearslong waiting lists to participate in the program (and few safeguards against fraud when they do). The EB-5 program could be putting money to work across America. Instead, mega-developers are skillfully redirecting the rewards. There’s a maximum of 10,000 visas available annually through EB-5, which also limits how much money the program can create. Hudson Yards garnered so many investors that the visas it generated alone probably maxed out an entire year’s quota.
Change could be on the horizon. Regulations written during the waning days of the Obama administration, and largely prompted by Senators Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Patrick Leahy of Vermont, have yet to take effect (and might never). While the completed rule was delivered to the Office of Management and Budget in February, it will languish there until the Trump administration decides to proceed. The regulations would raise the thresholds for investment and eliminate the option of gerrymandering. Ultimately, the best road forward for EB-5 may be to maintain investment levels where they are, to maximize capital for distressed areas — meaning single census tracts. No more district linguine.
While prospects are dim, support for and opposition to reform do not fall along traditional partisan lines. Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader and a darling of the real-estate lobby, has joined Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz in leading the fight to preserve the status quo. The Kushner family has reportedly used Jared Kushner’s proximity to the president to sell EB-5 properties to investors in China. It’s feasible that EB-5 could unite the Trump administration with Representative Jerrold Nadler, the president’s chief antagonist on the House Judiciary Committee, since his district covers much of the West Side of Manhattan — including Hudson Yards. 
The boondoggles facilitated by EB-5 are embarrassing. But the program could work elegantly. The fix is straightforward: Eliminate the gerrymandering. Kick states out of the qualifying process. Establish an escrow function that enables immigrants to make reasonably safe investments. If wealthy immigrants want to come to America and help build it up financially at the same time, let them. But bring an end to a reverse Robin Hood system that takes from Harlem and gives to Hudson Yards.
JAKARTA — More than 10,000 people have volunteered to crowd-source election results posted at polling stations across Indonesia on Wednesday in a real-time bid to thwart attempts at fraud during the biggest single-day election in the world.
Nearly 193 million people are eligible to vote for the Southeast Asian country's president and thousands of legislative seats, a Herculean logistical feat many fear could be exploited by cheats.
Tension over alleged election irregularities is already running high between the camps of the two contenders for the presidency, incumbent Joko Widodo and retired general Prabowo Subianto, with charges of suspicious names on electoral rolls and ballot tampering.
An organization called Kawal Pemilu, or Guard the Election, has brought together volunteers from across the sprawling archipelago to post on its website photographs of result tabulations that go up at polling stations to ensure they match official vote tallies.
The crowd-sourced results on KawalPemilu.org will then be tabulated manually by the organization.
"We aim to be the data back-up plan for the election," Kawal Pemilu co-founder Elina Ciptadi told Reuters. "To ensure transparency and stop fraud."
She said that more than 10,000 volunteers have been verified and 3,000-5,000 more have registered online to join the "election guardians", who are required to provide their names and Facebook profiles. Another 2,000, many of them Indonesian expatriates, will work as moderators, logging in data.
University student and alumni groups have pledged to help, as have the youth wings of prominent religious organizations, including of the Catholic Church, and of the two largest Muslims organizations, Muhammadiyah and Nahdlatul Ulama.
Ciptadi and data scientist Ainun Najib, both Indonesian expats who live in Singapore, started the initiative after the last election in 2014 - also a contest between Widodo and Prabowo - when both campaigns declared victory.
"Both sides claimed to win ... but neither of them were revealing the data," said Ciptadi.
Because the electoral commission (KPU) had posted 2014's polling station results on its website, the group was able to scrape numbers into a database and crowd-source accurate results in six days, while officials took more than two weeks to calculate almost exactly the same result by hand.
EIGHT-HOUR ELECTION 
This time the challenge is even greater.
For the first time Indonesia will be holding presidential and parliamentary polls simultaneously, with more than 245,000 candidates running for legislative seats in an exercise that will involve more than 800,000 polling stations and about 6 million election workers.
While the world's largest democracy, India, is now spreading its election out over seven phases, Indonesia - with roughly one-fifth of India's population - will get the job done in just eight hours.
The General Election Commission is expected to announce an official result in May.
Ciptadi stressed that her organization was strictly neutral.
"We are not a political movement, we are an open-data initiative," she said.
Most opinion polls give Widodo, a former furniture salesman whose political career began as a small-city mayor, a double-digit lead over Prabowo, whom he narrowly defeated in 2014.
The opposition has disputed survey findings. It has also said it uncovered data irregularities affecting millions on the electoral rolls and vowed to take legal action or use "people power" if its complaints are not resolved.
"We are very worried about the issue because the number is huge, there are 17.5 million problematic names in the voter list," Hashim Djojohadikusumo, deputy director for the Prabowo campaign, told reporters on Sunday.
He said that suspiciously large numbers had Dec. 31 and Jan. 1 birth dates, and area codes that did not exist.
A spokesman for the election commission refuted the allegations, telling Reuters they had verified the existence of the 17.5 million voters, as based on civil records.
Several videos appeared online last week apparently showing thousands of voting papers stuffed in bags at a warehouse in neighboring Malaysia, with many apparently already marked.
One showed people holding up ballots, saying they were marked in favor of Widodo, as well as for a member of one of the political parties backing him.
The election supervisory board met Malaysian police on Monday to discuss the case, media reported.
The supervisory board is also deciding whether to hold a new vote for Indonesians in Sydney, after several hundred registered voters were still standing in line after the polls closed there on Saturday.
A rights group has warned that more than 1 million indigenous people, many of whom live in forest areas or conflict zones, won't be able to vote because authorities had not registered them.
The Indigenous Peoples Alliance of the Archipelago, which represents 15 million indigenous people, told Reuters that several communities had never been registered for electronic identification cards, which provide the right to vote.
A home affairs ministry spokesperson disputed those findings and said any indigenous person who wanted to vote could register. "Please live in a legal location," he said.
(GRAPHIC: Indonesia election by the numbers - tmsnrt.rs/2V4DCqq) 
 (Reporting by Fanny Potkin; Additional reporting by Yerica Lai, Agustinus Beo Da Costa, Fanny Potkin, and Jessica Damiana; Writing by John Chalmers; Editing by Robert Birsel)
State investigators in Arizona are examining $3.4 million in possible Medicaid fraud at the parent company of a Phoenix nursing center where a woman in a vegetative state was raped and gave birth to a boy in December, according to court records.
The inquiry into the company, Hacienda HealthCare, began in 2016, when investigators at the health agency that manages the state’s Medicaid program started asking questions about Hacienda’s organizational and accounting structure. Investigators wanted to know whether Hacienda executives improperly shifted overhead expenses in the company to a subsidiary at the same location that then overcharged the state’s Medicaid program.
Investigators with the inspector general’s office of the state health agency, the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, have told Hacienda that $3.4 million in Medicaid payments to the company, for expenses from July 2013 to June 2014, appears suspicious and potentially fraudulent.
Nearly three years after the inquiry began, the state and the company are still locked in a legal battle. Hacienda officials have refused to turn over thousands of pages of internal financial documents sought by the state in multiple subpoenas, arguing that the requests are burdensome and beyond the state’s investigative scope. The state has said the investigation cannot be completed without them.
In an effort to force Hacienda to comply with the subpoenas, the state health agency sued the company in 2017 in Maricopa County Superior Court. A judge ruled in the state’s favor but Hacienda appealed, which is where the case stands today in the Arizona Court of Appeals.
“We can confirm that the office does have an open investigation into Hacienda related to fraud, waste and abuse,” Heidi Capriotti, a spokeswoman for the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, said. “As part of that investigation, A.H.C.C.C.S. requested a variety of Hacienda’s financial records, and sought enforcement of its administrative subpoena when Hacienda refused to comply with the request.”
Hacienda said in a statement on Friday: “At every step in the process, Hacienda has strenuously denied any and all allegations of overpayment. The company has produced a voluminous set of records to the investigating agency meant to prove that no such overpayments occurred. Most importantly, this lawsuit has nothing to do with quality of care issues.”
In earlier court filings, the company said that it had used the same “cost-effective management structure” since 2001 and that this structure had been approved by independent auditors and was not questioned by state regulators until the 2016 investigation. The company said it had turned over more than 16,000 pages of documents to the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System but had resisted the agency’s other requests.
“A.H.C.C.C.S. exceeded its authority, and the superior court’s order enforcing the subpoena should be vacated,” lawyers for the company wrote in the appeal.
While that investigation continues, detectives with the Phoenix Police Department recently opened a criminal investigation at a nursing home operated by Hacienda HealthCare after a 29-year-old woman who has been in a coma nearly her entire life gave birth to a boy there on Dec. 29. The two investigations have brought intense national scrutiny on Hacienda, Arizona’s largest privately operated long-term nursing company for people with developmental disabilities. People in its care have a range of intellectual and physical disabilities.
In recent years, Hacienda has also been investigated by the Arizona Department of Health Services over the treatment of its patients. In 2013, the agency found that a male employee at the nursing home being investigated, the Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, had made sexually explicit remarks to patients, including telling a resident that his penis was erect. In 2017, investigators reported that employees freely walked in on patients while they were naked and showering.
The woman at the center of the police investigation has been at Hacienda since she was 3. She cannot move on her own, cannot communicate and requires total supervision, according to health records obtained by The New York Times.
The San Carlos Apache Tribe, whose reservation is about 100 miles east of Phoenix, said the woman was an “enrolled member” of the tribe. The tribe’s chairman and her mother, who was granted permanent guardianship in 2009, have not returned calls seeking comment.
On Friday, the police released a frantic 911 call from the Hacienda nursing center when the woman went into labor on Dec. 29. The caller said no one knew that the woman had been pregnant. Both the mother and the baby were recovering at a Phoenix hospital, the police said this week.
“She was not in a position to give consent to any of this,” Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a police spokesman, said on Wednesday. “This was a helpless victim who was sexually assaulted.”
Since the Phoenix police announced their investigation a week ago, detectives have collected the DNA of male employees at Hacienda; the state dispatched health inspectors to check on the other patients there; and the company’s longtime chief executive, Bill Timmons, resigned. Over nearly three decades, Mr. Timmons had built Hacienda into a major player in long-term health care in Arizona.
The company says it operates more than 40 programs through its subsidiaries, which provide services to more than 2,000 people every year. The Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, which is one of those subsidiaries, has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records. Most of the subsidiaries operate out of the same property, about six miles south of downtown Phoenix, and share the same directors and executives.
From 2009 to last October, Hacienda received at least $6.7 million from the state in Medicaid funding and other money, according to public records. In his position at Hacienda, Mr. Timmons was well compensated over the past decade, according to the company’s financial filings. His total pay doubled from 2008 to 2017, when he received $674,212 in salary and other compensation.
But he resigned abruptly on Monday after reports of the police investigation became public, the company announced. Mr. Timmons had been at the center of the legal wrangling between Hacienda and the state, and he had fiercely defended the company’s corporate structure as legal and above board.
When Mr. Timmons resigned, Gary Orman, the executive vice president of the company’s board, said Hacienda would “accept nothing less than a full accounting of this absolutely horrifying situation.”
WASHINGTON — Four U.S. advertising trade groups have banded together to lobby Congress to ensure federal online privacy legislation is less strict than a law scheduled to go into effect in California in 2020.
The issue is of huge concern to advertisers, who rely on online data collection to help ad buyers spend their advertising budgets effectively.
Lawmakers in Congress are working on a bill but appear divided on how strong it should be and whether it should pre-empt California's law. No consensus draft has been introduced.
Privacy for America, the group announced on Monday, said U.S. legislation should prohibit practices like using a person's data to deny them a job or sharing data with third parties without ensuring there is no fraud intended.
They also called on lawmakers to create a Protection Bureau within the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), whose job it would be to authorize penalties for companies who break rules covered by the proposed legislation.
Their measure would also require strong data security protections to guard against data breaches. 
Justin Brookman, a privacy advocate with Consumer Reports and a veteran of the FTC, expressed support for efforts to strengthen the agency but was otherwise unimpressed with the proposal.
"They're picking some already-on-the-ground fruit," he said. "It looks like the existing self-regulatory rules that they've had in place for years that didn't work that well."
The new group's steering committee is composed of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the Association of National Advertisers, Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) and Network Advertising Initiative.
"We've been making the rounds on Capitol Hill and we've been met very favorably," said Randall Rothenberg, CEO of IAB, acknowledging "honestly some tense conversations along the way."
Amazon.com, Facebook, Alphabet's Google and Twitter are all members of the IAB.
The proposed measure was aimed at pre-empting California's more stringent law, said Stuart Ingis, an attorney working with the group. 
The advertisers also hoped to avoid rules like those adopted by the European Union last year which require consumers to "click" to consent to a website's data collection practices before using the site, said Ingis.
 (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall)
In the premiere episode of “Job or No Job,” which ran on ABC Family in 2015 for one season, Jane Buckingham explains why she signed on to host the show, in which she gives millennials career guidance. “I have seen so many young people trying to find a great job but most don’t have the tools they need,” Ms. Buckingham says. “People under 30 have some of the highest levels of unemployment in the country.”
But, she said, “nobody’s ever told them what they don’t want to hear.”
The conceit of the show was that Ms. Buckingham, the founder and chief executive of a youth marketing consultancy called Trendera and an author of advice books, would coach recent college graduates on real-world skills, like preparing for job interviews. “It’s pretty clear that young people have some misconceptions about what’s acceptable and what’s not,” she told The Observer in 2015 about her motivation. “I don’t think that that’s because they’re arrogant or anything like that, I just think no one’s giving it to them straight and I can do that,” she said. 
“You’ll see some people acting so entitled that you want to slap them,” Ms. Buckingham said in that same interview, talking about what to expect from the show. “You’ll see some people disagree with me and people that just don’t like me telling them what to do. And, you’ll see candidates getting jobs that they shouldn’t, others getting jobs that they should, and still others getting passed over for jobs that they really deserved.”
On Tuesday, Ms. Buckingham was one of the dozens of people charged with participating in large-scale fraud scheme, hatched to game the college admissions process. According to the complaint filed by federal investigators, Ms. Buckingham agreed to pay a bribe of $50,000 to a phony foundation in order to have someone else take the ACT college-entrance exam on behalf of her son Jack, earning him a 35 out of 36 points. 
Marcus Buckingham, Ms. Buckingham’s former husband, was not charged. “Marcus Buckingham had no knowledge of or involvement in the scheme,” a spokeswoman for Mr. Buckingham wrote in an email.
On Wednesday, Jack Buckingham released a statement to The Hollywood Reporter, saying: “I am upset that I was unknowingly involved in a large scheme that helps give kids who may not work as hard as others an advantage over those who truly deserve those spots.” Mr. Buckingham said that he hopes that “this might help finally cut down on money and wealth being such a heavy factor in college admissions.” According to the complaint, Ms. Buckingham wanted to administer a copy of the test to Jack so that he would believe that he had taken it.
Ms. Buckingham was not reached for comment through her company or her publisher, HarperCollins.
[Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution.]
Until Thursday, when most of the pages on its website disappeared, Trendera, Ms. Buckingham’s marketing firm, listed Netflix, HBO, Facebook, Condé Nast and Target as clients. The firm helps clients reach younger demographics. Though Ms. Buckingham founded Trendera in 2009, she has been analyzing youthful interests for much longer. In the late ‘90s, she founded Youth Intelligence, a consulting firm with services similar to Trendera’s; it was later renamed The Intelligence Group. 
Creative Artists Agency bought that firm in 2003, and Ms. Buckingham stayed on as its head for several years. According to the Los Angeles Times, as part of her consulting services, Ms. Buckingham led a “Trend School” in which participants paid $2,500 a head for the chance to look into the hearts and minds of Generation Xers and millennials. For those not interested in attending “Trend School,” the Intelligence Group published the crib notes in reports that were sent out several times a year for a $35,000 annual subscription.
At Trendera, Ms. Buckingham and her team continued to produce reports for a fee. For a time, they referred to Generation Z, the cohort that includes people born between 1995 and 2010, as Generation V — the “V” was for viral. By 2017, they adopted the more common term in a report on the demographic, which included a section called “Decoding Gen Z Communication” that defined terms like “issa,” “velfie” and “tings.” 
[Coming soon: The stories new parents are talking about. Evidence-based guidance. Commiseration. Sign up to get NYT Parenting in your inbox every week.]
Ms. Buckingham is also the author of a series called “Modern Girl’s Guides,” which offers tips on topics like what tools to keep in the kitchen or how to write a cover letter. The introduction to the first of these, “The Modern Girl’s Guide to Life,” promises to “let you cheat without getting caught — or even feel like you’re cheating.” The book inspired a series of the same name, which ran on the now-defunct Style Network for three seasons.
The third book in Ms. Buckingham’s series, “The Modern Girl’s Guide to Sticky Situations,” came out in 2010. (The second was a guide to motherhood.) Felicity Huffman, another of the parents charged in the college bribery scheme, was one of the guests at its launch party. The book, Ms. Buckingham wrote in the introduction, is “a stack of get-out-of-jail-free cards for the deserving gal with the best intentions and a moment of bad luck.” 
To comfort worried readers, she wrote: “Most hideous predicaments are not the end of the world.”
PRAGUE — Czech police said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Andrej Babis and others should stand trial for alleged fraud involving the handling of a 2 million euro European Union subsidy - charges that could see him jailed for up to 10 years.
Babis, a billionaire media and chemicals entrepreneur, has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and told the state CTK news agency on Wednesday that the case was part of a political plot against him. "It has been politicized," he said.
His junior coalition partners - the center-left Social Democrats who have threatened to pull out of the government in the past over the accusations - said that they would wait for the state attorney's decision.
"The investigation by the police has been concluded and ... there is a recommendation to indict all those charged by the police," the spokesman for the Prague district state attorney's office said. Babis was among those charged, the spokesman added.
In the Czech legal system, police bring initial charges. They then investigate and present findings to a state attorney who decides whether to go to court, ask police to investigate further, or halt the proceedings.
Thousands of opposition supporters and other activists have taken to the streets protesting against Babis since the charges emerged in 2017. 
But the case has not dented Babis' overall popularity ahead of the European Parliament elections in May. His centrist ANO party, a member of that parliament's ALDE faction, leads in polls with a double-digit margin.
Elections for the Czech parliament are not due until 2021.
Police have said they are looking into accusations that Babis hid his ownership of a farm and conference center, called Capi hnizdo (Stork Nest), so that it could qualify for an EU subsidy meant for small businesses.
Babis has said it was owned by his family members when the subsidy was awarded and only later folded into his Agrofert group of companies. 
The European Union has said its OLAF anti-fraud unit has also been looking into the case.
 (Reporting by Robert Muller, Editing by Michael Kahn and Andrew Heavens)
A teenage girl who did not play soccer magically became a star soccer recruit at Yale. Cost to her parents: $1.2 million.
A high school boy eager to enroll at the University of Southern California was falsely deemed to have a learning disability so he could take his standardized test with a complicit proctor who would make sure he got the right score. Cost to his parents: at least $50,000.
A student with no experience rowing won a spot on the U.S.C. crew team after a photograph of another person in a boat was submitted as evidence of her prowess. Her parents wired $200,000 into a special account.
In a major college admissions scandal that laid bare the elaborate lengths some wealthy parents will go to get their children into competitive American universities, federal prosecutors charged 50 people on Tuesday in a brazen scheme to buy spots in the freshman classes at Yale, Stanford and other big-name schools.
[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]
Thirty-three well-heeled parents were charged in the case, including Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, and prosecutors said there could be additional indictments to come.
Also implicated were top college athletic coaches, who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit undeserving students to a wide variety of colleges, from the University of Texas at Austin to Wake Forest and Georgetown, by suggesting they were top athletes.
The parents included the television star Lori Loughlin and her husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli; the actress Felicity Huffman; and William E. McGlashan Jr., a partner at the private equity firm TPG, officials said.
[Read more here about the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]
The scheme unveiled Tuesday was stunning in its breadth and audacity. It was the Justice Department’s largest-ever college admissions prosecution, a sprawling investigation that involved 200 agents nationwide and resulted in charges against 50 people in six states.
The charges also underscored how college admissions have become so cutthroat and competitive that some have sought to break the rules. The authorities say the parents of some of the nation’s wealthiest and most privileged students sought to buy spots for their children at top universities, not only cheating the system, but potentially cheating other hard-working students out of a chance at a college education.
In many of the cases, prosecutors said, the students were not aware that their parents were doctoring their test scores and lying to get them into school. Federal prosecutors did not charge any students or universities with wrongdoing.
“The parents are the prime movers of this fraud,” Andrew E. Lelling, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts, said Tuesday during a news conference. Mr. Lelling said that those parents used their wealth to create a separate and unfair admissions process for their children.
“The real victims in this case are the hardworking students” who were displaced in the admissions process by “far less qualified students and their families who simply bought their way in,” Mr. Lelling said.
At the center of the sweeping financial crime and fraud case was William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business called the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key.
The authorities said Mr. Singer used The Key and its nonprofit arm, Key Worldwide Foundation, which is based in Newport Beach, Calif., to help students cheat on their standardized tests, and to pay bribes to the coaches who could get them into college with fake athletic credentials.
[Read more about William Singer, the founder of a college preparatory business, who’s at the center of the case.]
Mr. Singer used The Key as a front, allowing parents to funnel money into an account without having to pay any federal taxes.
Parents paid Mr. Singer about $25 million from 2011 until February 2019 to bribe coaches and university administrators to designate their children as recruited athletes, which effectively ensured their admission, according to the indictment.
Mr. Singer appeared in federal court in Boston on Tuesday afternoon and pleaded guilty to counts of racketeering conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, conspiracy to defraud the United States, and obstruction of justice.
Sitting very still and wearing a dark suit, he described how he arranged for students’ SAT and ACT results to be falsified by sending them to take the exams in Houston or Los Angeles, where he had bribed test administrators. He described the students as believing they were taking the tests legitimately, but said that his test proctor would correct their answers afterward. Mr. Singer said he would tell the proctor the score he wanted the student to get, and he would achieve that score exactly.
In his testimony, he referred to his bribery and money laundering schemes as “a side door” method of admission.
“If I can make the comparison, there is a front door of getting in where a student just does it on their own, and then there’s a back door where people go to institutional advancement and make large donations, but they’re not guaranteed in,” Mr. Singer said. “And then I created a side door that guaranteed families to get in. So that was what made it very attractive to so many families, is I created a guarantee.”
One of the prosecutors, Eric S. Rosen, said that Mr. Singer had in some cases falsified students’ ethnicities and other biographical details to take advantage of affirmative action.
Mr. Singer also described how, after he became a cooperating witness and was told by the prosecutors and the F.B.I. that he could not talk to anyone about the case, he tipped off several families that he was wired and warned them not to incriminate themselves in conversations with him.
The judge set sentencing for June 19, and Mr. Singer was released on a $500,000 bond.
[Read about how the scandal ensnared the stars Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin.]
Most elite universities recruit student athletes and use different criteria to admit them, often with lower grades and standardized test scores than other students.
Mr. Singer helped parents go to great lengths to falsely present their children as the sort of top-flight athletes that coaches would want to recruit.
Mr. Singer fabricated athletic “profiles” of students to submit with their applications, which contained teams the students had not played on and honors they had not won. Some parents supplied “staged photographs of their children engaged in athletic activity,” according to the authorities; Mr. Singer’s associates also photoshopped the faces of the applicants onto images of athletes found on the internet.
“This is an extreme, unsubtle and illegal example of the increasingly common practice of using money to get an edge in the race for a place in an elite university,” said Christopher Hunt, who runs College Essay Mentor, a consulting service for applicants.
In one example detailed in an indictment, the parents of a student applying to Yale paid Mr. Singer $1.2 million to help her get admitted. The student, who did not play soccer, was described as the co-captain of a prominent club soccer team in Southern California in order to be recruited for the Yale women’s soccer team. The head coach of the Yale team, Rudolph Meredith, was bribed at least $400,000 to recruit the student.
After the profile was created, Mr. Singer sent the fake profile to Mr. Meredith, who then designated her as a recruit, even though he knew the student did not play competitive soccer, according to the complaint.
[Read the full list of who has been charged here.]
In its investigation, known internally as Operation Varsity Blues, the government focused on the 33 indicted parents. Those parents were willing to pay between $15,000 and $75,000 per test, which went to college entrance exam administrators who helped their children cheat on them by giving them answers, correcting their work or even letting third parties falsely pose as their children and take the tests in their stead, according to the indictment.
Mr. Singer instructed at least one parent, Mr. McGlashan, to claim that his son had learning disabilities in order to gain extended time for him to take his college entrance exam alone, over two days instead of one, according to court documents.
The government said that Mr. McGlashan’s son was told to take the exam at one of two test centers where Mr. Singer worked with test administrators who had been bribed to allow students to cheat. And Mr. Singer told Mr. McGlashan to fabricate a reason, such as a wedding, for why their children would need to take the test in one of those locations.
Mr. McGlashan’s son was unaware of the scheme, according to court documents.
Mr. McGlashan did not respond to an email seeking comment. TPG said that it had placed Mr. McGlashan on indefinite administrative leave effective immediately as a result of the charges.
When Mr. Singer explained the scheme last June to Gordon R. Caplan, co-chairman of the global law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher, Mr. Caplan laughed and said, “And it works?” according to a transcript of a recorded phone conversation between the two men captured in a court-authorized wiretap.
Mr. Singer told Mr. Caplan that his daughter would not know that her standardized test scores had been faked.
“Nobody knows what happens,” Mr. Singer said, according to the transcript of the call. “She feels great about herself. She got a test score, and now you’re actually capable for help getting into a school. Because the test score’s no longer an issue. Does that make sense?”
“That does,” Mr. Caplan said. According to prosecutors, Mr. Caplan paid $75,000 for the service.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Caplan and Willkie Farr did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Universities were quick to respond to the charges on Tuesday. According to the indictment, Stanford University’s head sailing coach, John Vandemoer, took financial contributions to the sailing program from an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission.
Stanford said Tuesday that Mr. Vandemoer had been fired. The University of Texas at Austin released a statement Tuesday saying that its men’s tennis coach, Michael Center, has been placed on leave. And at U.S.C., Donna Heinel, a top athletic director, and Jovan Vavic, the men’s and women’s water polo coach, were terminated. Ms. Heinel received more than $1.3 million in bribes and Mr. Vavic about $250,000 according to federal prosecutors.
In a letter to the college community, Wanda M. Austin, the interim president of the University of Southern California, said, “It is immensely disappointing that individuals would abuse their position at the university this way.”
Like other college administrators, Dr. Austin said she did not believe that admissions officers were aware of the scheme or took part in it, and she described the university as a victim.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
The indictment against the WikiLeaks founder that was unsealed on Thursday makes no mention of his website’s role in Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, so it remains unclear whether his arrest will answer lingering questions.
Among them is what, if anything, Mr. Assange knew about Guccifer 2.0, a hacker whom U.S. officials have identified as a front for Russian operatives.
Mr. Assange, bearded and bedraggled, was dragged from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he had been sheltered since 2012. He was charged in the U.S. with conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network, as part of the process that brought WikiLeaks a trove of classified U.S. material in 2010. The narrow indictment was a relief to some of those who feared a case against Mr. Assange could undermine press freedoms. We explained those concerns.
Closer look: From his beginnings as a teenage hacker in Australia, Mr. Assange has been a deeply divisive figure. Two of our reporters traced his history.
What’s next: Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that the process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir lost his 30-year grip on the country on Thursday, after months of street demonstrations.
But protesters’ jubilation was tempered by uncertainty about what might replace Mr. al-Bashir, 75. The military said it would lead a two-year transition, with Sudan’s Constitution suspended.
Background: Mr. al-Bashir had long played up his humble origins, but even for an autocrat, he had a low reputation in the West. The International Criminal Court has accused him of playing “an essential role” in the genocide in the western region of Darfur in the 2000s. Military officials said today that they had no intention of extraditing Mr. al-Bashir and that he would be tried in Sudan.
Quotable: “He’s like the spider at the center of the web — he could pick up on the smallest tremor, then deftly use his personalized political retail skills to manage the politics of the army,” one Sudan expert said.
Scott Kelly, who spent 340 days on the International Space Station, experienced genetic mutations and declines in cognitive test scores. NASA reported the findings on Thursday, offering a hint at how space travel affects the body.
Mr. Kelly’s twin brother, Mark, himself a former astronaut, underwent identical tests on Earth to provide a comparison. Here are four takeaways from the study.
Yesterday: An Israeli moon lander appeared to have crashed. It would have been the first private spacecraft to reach the lunar surface. Separately, SpaceX successfully launched its Falcon Heavy rocket, now the most powerful in the world, for the second time. 
Another angle: Capturing the first image of a black hole required the work of more than 200 researchers. About 40 were women, and one, Katie Bouman, became a face for the project.
Before what’s expected to be the largest initial public offering in years, the ride-hailing service said on Thursday that it had lost $1.8 billion last year, renewing questions about the sustainability of its business. The company’s prospectus also showed a slowdown in revenue growth.
The details: Uber’s main rival in North America, Lyft, went public last month and appears to be growing faster. Here’s how the companies stack up.
Another angle: The I.P.O., expected next month, could value Uber around $100 billion. Many stand to get rich, although not most of the drivers integral to Uber’s success. 
“Fortress North America” is a concept that has long comforted military planners in the U.S. and Canada. In the worst case, distance, ocean and ice would offer protection.
The ice is now melting. But the cold remains a formidable challenge, as two Times journalists found when they embedded with military forces readying to counter Russia.
Plan for “sanctuary cities”: The White House considered releasing apprehended migrants into so-called sanctuary cities represented by Democratic lawmakers, according to people familiar with the proposal. The idea was rejected by the immigration authorities.
New charges for Michael Avenatti: Already facing claims of fraud and extortion, the lawyer known for representing the porn star Stormy Daniels was accused by federal prosecutors on Thursday of stealing millions from clients and lying about his income.
Ex-Obama aide is indicted: Gregory Craig has been charged with lying to the Justice Department and hiding information about his work for the government of Ukraine.
Arrest in church fires: The 21-year-old son of a sheriff’s deputy has been charged after three predominantly black churches in Louisiana were set ablaze.
Disney’s streaming service: The company has offered long-awaited details about its plan to fight the tech giants that have moved into the entertainment business. Disney Plus, a subscription video service, will cost $7 a month and arrive on Nov. 12.
Perspective: The Department of Energy wants to roll back efficiency standards for light bulbs. The bulb’s inventor, Thomas Edison, wouldn’t approve, two of his great-grandchildren write in an Op-Ed.
Snapshot: Above, the funeral procession for the rapper Nipsey Hussle in Los Angeles on Thursday. Thousands of mourners, including Stevie Wonder and Snoop Dogg, gathered for a bittersweet memorial to the local hero, who was fatally shot last month. 
News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.
Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman reaches 50 and decides to donate a kidney, secretly.
Late-night comedy: Seth Meyers had some advice for Michael Avenatti: “When you rip people off you gotta play it cool with the money. You’re like the guy who buys a Ferrari and asks for the vanity plate ‘BNK RBBR.’ ” 
What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. “The writer, Caitlin Flanagan, was once an unhappy college counselor at a private school in Los Angeles,” says Lynda Richardson, an editor for Travel. “She’s uniquely equipped to dissect the parental behavior in the college cheating scandal. Entitlement doesn’t even begin to cover what she finds in the court documents.”
Cook: This rainbow sprinkle cake doesn’t need a special occasion.
Watch: Alex Ross Perry’s new feature, “Her Smell,” focuses on an all-female band’s lead singer (a raw, charismatic Elisabeth Moss) as she runs off the rails.
Listen: The composer George Crumb turns 90 this year. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is presenting two concerts in tribute, but, if you can’t make those, we have a Spotify playlist of his compositions.
Read: In “Horizon,” the environmentalist Barry Lopez reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world. It’s one of eight new books we recommend.
Smarter Living: Your lawn has an environmental impact. To reduce it, try low-maintenance ground cover, like clover, creeping thyme or native plants — but take care to avoid invasive ones. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead.
And we have guidance on how to go paperless on tax records, securely. 
Want to go to a party tonight? You could say yes, but you could also say “Poyekhali!” (poe-YEK-hoe-lee). That’s “Let’s go!” in Russian.
That’s what the cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin radioed to controllers during liftoff for the world’s first human spaceflight, 58 years ago today. The term will be bandied around the world this evening, in Yuri’s Night celebrations.
The Soviet Union commemorated the flight by establishing Cosmonautics Day, which has been celebrated since with parades and space-themed events.
The hipper Yuri’s Night began in the U.S. in 2000, with raves and parties for scientists. It caught on. The crew of the International Space Station sometimes sends greetings.
Parties are planned on at least five continents, including at a research station in Antarctica.
Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, a writer, public speaker and spaceflight proponent who founded Yuri’s Night with her husband, urges partyers to “have a beer with a rocket scientist.”
A South Dakota man linked to an admitted Russian covert agent is accused of obtaining at least $2.3 million from 78 people for bogus investments dating to at least 1997, according to documents unsealed Monday.
Businessman and conservative political operative Paul Erickson, of Sioux Falls, has pleaded not guilty to 11 counts of wire fraud and money laundering. An affidavit that had previously been blocked from public view alleges that he promised returns of up to 150 percent while spending the money on personal expenses such as motels, flights and college tuition for Maria Butina, Erickson's former girlfriend.
Although some of the accusations go back 20 years, the affidavit said Erickson came to the attention of the FBI in 2016 when a woman selling land in the North Dakota oil patch told authorities that a group of investors had paid Erickson $100,000 for the same land. The investigation led authorities to conclude that Erickson ran fraudulent schemes involving two other primary businesses, the manufacturing of a specialized wheelchair and the construction of retirement homes around the country.
Erickson's attorney, Clint Sargent, did not immediately return a phone message left Monday by The Associated Press.
The charges against Erickson, 57, appear unrelated to the case of Butina, 30, who pleaded guilty in December to trying to infiltrate conservative political groups as a Kremlin secret agent. Butina said in her plea agreement that she "sought to establish unofficial lines of communication with Americans having power and influence over U.S. politics" and that Erickson helped her as she tried to use his ties with the National Rifle Association to set up the back channels.
Some of Erickson's investors are named in the affidavit, including Mark Sanford, the former congressman and South Carolina governor. Authorities say in one instance Erickson tried to convince a woman to invest in the specialized wheelchair by telling her that Sanford put money into the company. Erickson promised the woman a return of between 125 and 150 percent on her investment, the affidavit said.
Sanford allegedly told the FBI he invested in the oil patch property and not the wheelchair.
Erickson, described by one of his victims as a "charismatic gentleman," was national political director for Pat Buchanan's challenge to President George H. W. Bush in the 1992 Republican primary. He also was a media adviser to John Wayne Bobbitt, the Virginia man whose wife cut off his penis with a kitchen knife in 1993. And he joined with Jack Abramoff, a Washington lobbyist later imprisoned for corruption, in producing an anti-communist action movie
Erickson's trial is currently scheduled for July.
Mary Boone, a veteran New York gallerist once lauded as the “Queen of the Art Scene,” pleaded for leniency Thursday. But a federal judge sentenced her to two and a half years in prison for offenses connected to a tax fraud that prosecutors said had cost the government $3 million in revenue.
“I stand before you today saddened, humbled and heartbroken,” Ms. Boone told Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in Federal District Court in Manhattan, adding, “I beg that you give me a second chance.”
But after a brief recess, Judge Hellerstein delivered his sentence, asserting that the magnitude of her crimes and their “long and studied nature” required a prison term.
“This is a serious offense; all must pay their taxes,” he said.
Ms. Boone, wearing a dark blue suit, leaned forward at the pronouncement, resting her face in her hands. She was ordered to surrender in May to begin serving her sentence.
For more than 40 years Ms. Boone, 67, has been a fixture in the ever-changing art world, rising from secretary to gallery owner, showing the work of artists like Jean-Michel Basquiat, sometimes courting controversy and occasionally becoming embroiled in high-profile disputes. She is one of the most prominent art world figures to face prison since 2002, when the former chairman of Sotheby’s, A. Alfred Taubman, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison and fined $7.5 million for leading a price-fixing scheme with Christie’s that swindled customers out of more than $100 million.
Prosecutors with the United States attorney’s office had asked that Ms. Boone be sentenced to as much as three years in prison for the crimes she had pleaded guilty to — two counts of filing false tax returns. They said Ms. Boone had reported false business losses, used business funds to pay for more than $1.6 million in personal expenses, like renovations to her home, and then falsely claimed those personal expenses as business deductions.
But her lawyers had asked for a sentence of home confinement, probation and community service. They also submitted more than 100 letters attesting to her good works from friends, artists and collectors including the Chinese artist and dissident Ai Weiwei, whom she once represented.
Ms. Boone was born in Erie, Penn. and had a childhood that her lawyers described as “marked by tragedy and poverty.” Her father died at an early age, they said, and her mother struggled daily to survive. But after opening her own gallery in 1977 in SoHo, she quickly gained attention while selling works by Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, David Salle and Ross Bleckner. In 1982, when she was 30, New York magazine published a story about her titled, “The New Queen of the Art Scene.”
Her gallery was considered by many to be at, or near, the white hot center of the ’80s art boom. The works she displayed there, the critic Roberta Smith wrote in The New York Times, were “seen as slanting heavily toward an overtly macho form of Neo-Expressionist painting.”
Ms. Boone moved her gallery from SoHo to Midtown in 1996 and later opened a space in Chelsea. She continued to exhibit the work of younger painters and organize shows that drew positive reviews.
She also continued to be cited in headlines. In 1999, Ms. Boone was arrested after displaying a handmade shotgun by the artist Tom Sachs and offering live 9-millimeter cartridges as souvenirs. She spent a night in jail, and told reporters her arrest was “an outrageous attack” on artists’ rights. The charges against her were eventually dropped.
In 2016, the actor Alec Baldwin sued Ms. Boone, saying she had defrauded him by promising him one painting by Mr. Bleckner, but then providing another, similar Bleckner painting with the same name. Mr. Baldwin’s case was eventually settled with Ms. Boone paying him what was described only as “a seven-figure sum.”
In the tax case, Ms. Boone was charged with filing false returns for herself and her gallery for the year 2011. Federal authorities said that she had engaged in similar schemes the two previous years.
Ms. Boone’s lawyers had argued against prison time, writing to the court that her troubled childhood led to mental health issues, a suicide attempt and drug and alcohol abuse. The poverty of her early life, they said, had left her fearful that, despite her success, she would end up destitute and dependent upon others.
In court Thursday, one of Ms. Boone’s lawyers, Robert Fink, told the judge that she committed her crimes “not because she was greedy, but because she was frightened.”
But Judge Hellerstein seemed skeptical, at one point asking how it would be fair for him to sentence someone to prison for narcotics while allowing Ms. Boone to remain free.
Prosecutors had argued in a memo to the court last month that Ms. Boone did not deserve leniency. They cited the many personal expenses Ms. Boone had falsely claimed as business deductions, including $793,003 used to remodel her Manhattan apartment, beauty salon purchases of $24,380, nearly $14,000 on products from Hermès and more than $5,000 on items from Louis Vuitton.
On Thursday one of the prosecutors, Olga Zverovich, told Judge Hellerstein that there was no excuse for Ms. Boone’s conduct, adding, “It’s brazen, it’s deliberate, it’s extensive and it’s clear that it was motivated by greed.”
It is now unclear what will happen to the gallery business. Her lawyers had told the judge that Ms. Boone’s presence was “indispensable” to the business and to “the numerous employees, artists, vendors and others that it supports.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The crime is deceptively simple and maddeningly effective. 
Thieves, often at night, use string to lower glue-covered rodent traps or bottles coated with an adhesive down the chute of a sidewalk mailbox. This bait attaches to the envelopes inside, and the fish in this case — mail containing gift cards, money orders or checks, which can be altered with chemicals and cashed — are reeled out slowly.
This low-tech crime, which became common in the Bronx, is known as mail fishing. 
Now it has met its match.
The United States Postal Service is replacing or retrofitting mailboxes in much of the northeast to eliminate the pull-down handle in favor of a slender mail slot with a singular goal: foiling thieves. 
All of the approximately 7,000 mailboxes in New York City and those in other parts of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts are being revamped. No plans yet exist for a nationwide overhaul, officials said, but in areas where fishing becomes prevalent, the thief-proof boxes will likely follow. 
“It’s safety, with anything. Twenty years ago, maybe you wouldn’t have locked your door, or locked your car. But as time changes, we all have to change with it,” said Donna Harris, a spokeswoman for the New York division of the United States Postal Inspection Service, the law enforcement arm of the Postal Service that works closely with local and State Police departments.
The mail slots are only large enough for letters, meaning sending even small packages will require a trip to the post office. The opening is also equipped with a mechanism that grabs at a letter once inserted, making it difficult to retract. (With an air of crime-fighting secrecy, postal inspectors declined to elaborate on precisely how the device works. “Those features on the box, what we like to call the Cadillac of mailboxes, those are things I can’t talk about,” Ms. Harris said.)
Most mail fishing thefts are done by lone thieves looking for quick cash. Though in some instances, the New York Police Department has partnered with the F.B.I. to take down organized crime rings that aim to not only steal money, but to commit identity theft, bank fraud and more.
“Those cases deal with thefts in the hundreds of thousands of dollars,” said Lt. Tara Deckert, of the Police Department’s grand larceny division. 
In 2018, about 3,000 incidents of fishing were reported in New York City, up from 2,800 the year before, said Jason Savino, the grand larceny division’s commanding officer.
As of March 1, 352 mail fishing incidents had been reported in New York City this year, placing the city on track to record a 30 percent reduction in fishing from last year — a decline officials attribute to the newfangled boxes. 
Still, with tax season in full swing, the police are warning snail mail users to remain vigilant. Postal inspectors and the police also suggest that people use gel pens rather than ballpoint on mailed checks to make them harder to erase, and to deposit mail just before a scheduled pickup time so that envelopes do not sit in boxes overnight.
“During tax season, there probably is a greater chance of catching fish, so to speak,” Officer Savino said. 
Once boxes have been hit by thieves five or more times they are labeled “hot boxes” by the police and prioritized for surveillance or upgrades, Lieutenant Deckert said. 
All of the mailboxes in the Bronx already have been replaced or retrofitted, and Manhattan’s overhaul will be complete by summer. Mailboxes in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island are slowly being upgraded. 
Alexander Sylvester, a postal inspector with the Philadelphia division that also covers a large swath of New Jersey, said his office is trying hard to change “as many bins as possible,” but have prioritized areas most impacted by theft. 
The introduction of the new boxes has led to some confusion.
One letter carrier in Midtown Manhattan said the volume of mail in the boxes he empties seems to have decreased by about half, and a few customers have asked him if the box was locked. 
The Postal Service, which has been struggling financially for years in the face of declining mail volume, did not respond to questions about the average cost of each new or updated mailbox, or whether the overhaul had made an additional dent in mail volume.
Earlier this month, Mary Stella, who lives in Midtown Manhattan, peered and poked at the slot before inserting her letter. “The first time I used this box, I was confused,” Ms. Stella admitted, but added that she is a fan of the new design “because you can’t stick your hands inside and take things out.”
It is also not possible to insert a package containing an object that could cause harm, although preventing terrorism is not the primary goal.
“Obviously the boxes could have more than one purpose, but the boxes are being placed to thwart mail theft,” Ms. Harris said.
In addition to the new mail slots, some bins are being moved altogether for security reasons. Mailboxes that had been accessible for drive-by drop offs, for example, have been relocated next to post offices for better surveillance, officials said.
Even with the security upgrades, Margret Temple, of the Upper West Side, said she has not used a royal blue sidewalk mailbox for more than a year.“I just go to the post office because it’s just safer,” said Ms. Temple, 65. 
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
The call came in just after dark on Tuesday — a masked man with a gun was robbing a T-Mobile store in Queens, holding two employees in a back room.
Within minutes, the first police officers arrived, and two officers and a sergeant ran inside, officials said. More officers pulled up outside, and still more. The man in the store advanced quickly toward the officers inside, pistol raised. They retreated out of the store.
Then everything went wrong.
Seven officers opened fire toward the store — a total of 42 shots within 11 seconds, the police said. “It goes from zero to 60,” said Chief Terence Monahan, the Police Department’s highest-ranking uniformed officer.
When the barrage of gunfire ended, two men lay bleeding on the sidewalk outside the store.
Neither was the robber.
They were brother officers, struck in a crossfire of police bullets. One of them, a veteran detective, Brian Simonsen, died from his wounds. A sergeant was hit nearby — “I’m shot,” he said into his radio. “Perp’s still in location.”
The man in the store was wounded and quickly arrested. In a final, terrible twist, the gun he had carried turned out to be fake, the police said. Lethal in appearance, but harmless.
[Citing the detective’s death, Mayor Bill de Blasio canceled a political trip to New Hampshire. ]
Those 11 seconds of blind confusion will be parsed in the days and weeks ahead, as the police do an internal investigation to learn how such a chain of events could occur and how a recurrence could someday be prevented.
Detective Simonsen, 42, a 19-year veteran, was fatally shot in the chest, the police commissioner said. He was the first New York City police officer to be killed in the line of duty since July 2017. The sergeant who was struck, Matthew Gorman, 34, underwent surgery for a gunshot wound to his hip and was expected to recover.
The robbery suspect was identified as Christopher Ransom, 27, of Brooklyn, who has history of prior arrests for minor crimes and whom the police were seeking in connection with a cellphone store robbery in January. He was shot eight times, the police said, and was in stable condition at New York Hospital Queens. He was charged with murder and robbery.
New details released on Wednesday gave some shape to the confusing initial accounts of the chaotic event. Details of fatal police shootings in New York City can be slow to emerge in the initial 24 hours, in part because police investigators do not typically interview the officers who have discharged their weapons right away for legal reasons related to the Fifth Amendment. Instead, investigators begin by gathering the accounts of officers who were present but did not open fire.
The police in the area heard the call from a dispatcher shortly after 6 p.m. on Tuesday, relating a bystander’s account of a man with a gun in the T-Mobile store forcing two employees into a back room. A parade of officers responded on their own radios to say they were en route: “Show me going,” they said, according to a recording of the radio dispatches on Broadcastify.
The dispatcher responded with the standard police directive to drive safely: “Arrive alive,” and added, “No sirens, guys.”
Detective Simonsen and his boss, Sergeant Gorman, were among the first to reach the store, both in plain clothes, along with some uniformed officers. Sergeant Gorman and two uniformed officers entered the store at about 6:12 p.m., Deputy Chief Kevin Maloney of the Force Investigation Division, which investigates all police shootings, said at a news conference on Wednesday.
Mr. Ransom emerged from a back room and raised the imitation pistol, walking toward them, Chief Maloney said. The three officers retreated outside, and Mr. Ransom walked to the store’s front door. He made motions as if he were firing the gun at the officers outside the store.
Seven officers opened fire. Detective Simonsen fired twice, and Sergeant Gorman, 11 times, the police said. Five other officers fired 29 shots among them.
“Shots fired! Shots fired!” an officer shouts, his voice cracking, according to the recording of radio traffic. Dozens of gunshots ring out in the background.
“We don’t know at this point who shot who,” Chief Monahan said.
Detective Simonsen, who was struck once in the chest, was not wearing a bulletproof vest. He and Sergeant Gorman had been staking out a house nearby as part of a robbery investigation when they responded to the call, law enforcement officials said.
“It’s not uncommon for detectives to go out without a vest, especially when they don’t anticipate an apprehension or don’t have a planned apprehension,” said Michael Palladino, the president of the Detective’s Endowment Association. “You don’t expect to get involved to that degree.”
The police have viewed footage from the body cameras worn by five of the officers at the shooting, as well as surveillance video from cameras in and around the store, Deputy Chief Maloney said.
Officers rushed Detective Simonsen to Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in a squad car. “The trauma staff did their best to try to save him,” Commissioner James P. O’Neill said from the hospital on Tuesday night. “We thank them for that. They were unable to do so, however.”
A passing civilian drove Sergeant Gorman to the same hospital.
Mr. Ransom went to bizarre lengths in recent years to gain special access to the Brooklyn criminal courthouse. In 2013, he was charged with forging a letter from Kingsborough Community College to obtain an internship at the court, a criminal complaint said.
He was later caught in a judge’s chambers, where he did not have permission to be. An order of protection forbade him from approaching two judges in the building — an order he violated later that same year, court records show.
Mr. Ransom had always had a fascination with law enforcement, friends said. He had wanted to be a police officer since he was a boy, said one friend, Frank Rios. “But he couldn’t,” Mr. Rios said, “on account of being autistic.”
Mr. Ransom’s Facebook account contained several pictures of himself dressed like a police officer or an F.B.I. agent. In 2016, Mr. Ransom was arrested after using a fake badge and uniform to try to enter the 77th Precinct station house. And in a Facebook video, someone filmed Mr. Ransom, shirtless and wearing a red cape, approaching a police station house and greeting officers, thanking them for their service. He said he was a superhero.
“I just want to save people’s lives,” he said.
Detective Simonsen was a deeply familiar face in the 102nd Precinct. He spent his entire career there. He knew the neighbors and local businesses. He was a regular at the bodega near the precinct, where he chatted with employees and insisted on paying for his daily bottle of water.
Described by a family member as “a classic guy’s guy,” Detective Simonsen loved sports — especially New York ones — and was known as the life of the party in his large, but tight-knit community in Riverhead in Long Island.
“I can genuinely say he was the nicest, kindest person I’ve ever met in my entire life,” Terry Legrady, a neighbor and former patrol partner, said.
Detective Simonsen represented his colleagues as a union delegate. For that reason, he should not even have been at work on Tuesday evening: Mr. Palladino said the detective had attended a delegate meeting that morning, which excused him from his shift. He showed up anyway, eager to work on a robbery pattern with his sergeant.
“This was a guy who loved that community. This was his life. He loved the 102nd Precinct,” Chief Monahan said. “He loved the people of that community. He loved the cops of that community.”
As part of the departmental review, the tactics used in the shooting will be examined. The positioning of two groups of officers on opposing sides of the store entrance will almost certainly be looked at with a critical eye. “You want to avoid that crossfire situation,” Chief Monahan said.
It remains unclear whose bullet killed Detective Simonsen. The officers involved in the incident are said to be distraught.
“They’re all going through a lot of emotional distress,” said Chief Monahan. “This is the worst thing you could go through as a Police Department.”
Rarely is there a single conversation that dominates the college campuses of America, a back-and-forth that extends from Palo Alto, Calif., to Winston-Salem, N.C., and from New Haven, Conn., to Los Angeles.
There was one this week.
In classrooms and dining halls, on quads and in bars, there was a similar sense of astonishment. How could they? Can you believe it? United by an admissions scandal that touched so many of their campuses, students seethed in unison. They railed against privilege and greed. They worried that their diplomas might have been tarnished even before they were handed to them on stage.
Two Stanford University students channeled their fury into a class-action lawsuit that claims they wasted their money when they applied to schools that were ultimately linked to what the Justice Department called its largest ever college admissions prosecution.
At Yale, a 20-year-old junior said she felt vindicated because her stellar grades had earned her acceptance — not cheating or kickbacks.
At Georgetown, arguments erupted between students in classes and others offered their loan applications to each other as satirical proof that their parents had not wielded their wallets to gain them a spot.
“When the rich, famous and influential game a system already susceptible to corruption, it perpetuates who remains in power,” said Jessica Wolfrom, a graduate student at Georgetown. “And, really, what does it mean when the system itself is so competitive that the people with the most privilege and wealth feel they have to cheat and lie and pay people off to get their kids ahead? Where does that leave everyone else?”
[Read about the completely legal and largely unregulated world of private college consulting.]
At the University of California, Los Angeles — among the campuses ensnared in the shocking scheme — students like Ayesha Haleem said she and her classmates were both heartbroken and fuming.
“The higher education system has always benefited people who come from privileged backgrounds,” said Ms. Haleem, a Pakistani 23-year-old senior. “Students of color have it so much harder to even get to these places.”
The issue of race-based admissions dominated conversations at the University of Texas at Austin, which was party to a landmark affirmative action case several years ago and has a student body that is now 41 percent white, down from 62.7 percent in 2000.
The university’s men’s tennis coach, Michael Center, was fired Wednesday after he was accused of taking a $100,000 bribe in exchange for recruiting a well-off student who was not a competitive tennis player.
“This is a big story not just because of possible corruption, but also because there is an obvious rift this has exposed on campus,” said Forrest Milburn, a 23-year-old senior who is the managing editor of The Daily Texan, the campus newspaper. “People are thinking it’s affirmative action when really it’s just wealth and privilege that gets you in the door.”
[Read more on how the admissions scandal has been a harsh reminder of racial disparities.]
The scandal’s legal fallout is most likely only beginning, and it has already spread beyond the criminal indictments that federal prosecutors made public this week.
On Wednesday, just one day after prosecutors announced the charges in the so-called Operation Varsity Blues, two Stanford University students brought a class-action complaint in a federal court in California, and accused college after college of negligence. Although the suit was amended on Thursday — dropping one of the students but adding other plaintiffs without ties to Stanford — the case was an example of the exasperation on campuses.
The plaintiffs in the case alleged that they had wasted money when they applied to schools that were ultimately ensnared in the scheme and that every “qualified, rejected” student had also been hurt by the coast-to-coast fraud.
Many of the universities, though, have moved swiftly to fire coaches implicated in the scheme. Parents have made first appearances in court. And companies have distanced themselves from executives accused of paying William Singer, a college admissions consultant, to use bribes and deceit to raise their children’s test scores or get them admitted to their chosen schools through athletic recruiting spots, despite the fact that they were not competitive athletes.
In a brief court appearance on Friday, a Vancouver businessman who is accused of paying Mr. Singer at least $200,000 between 2011 and 2013 to have a hired test administrator take the SAT in place of each of his two sons, and a Canadian high school graduation exam for his older son, pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud.
The businessman, David Sidoo, was released on $1.5 million bail, under conditions including that he was not to travel beyond the United States or Canada. He was the first parent to enter a plea.
[Learn more about how families who have legally hired college admissions consultants view the ethics of their choices.]
U.C.L.A. warned this week that it might punish students who were connected to the scheme, including those already admitted or enrolled, “up to and including cancellation of admission,” the university said in a statement.
Wake Forest said that a student who had been admitted after $100,000 in payments were routed through the volleyball coach was still enrolled on the campus in Winston-Salem, N.C., adding that it had no reason to believe that the student had been aware of the scheme.
And Stanford said the two prospective students caught up in the case were never admitted; one did not even apply. Still, students at the Palo Alto, Calif., campus said they were deeply disappointed that their university was enmeshed in the scandal.
“I worked so hard to get admitted into the school,” said Hailee Hoffman, a 22-year-old senior who is on the gymnastics team. In addition to taking advanced placement classes, she said she also trained more than 30 hours a week while in high school. “To find that someone had exploited the system and tried to buy their way in was so disheartening.”
[Read more about how the authorities say the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]
About a year ago, federal prosecutors working on a securities fraud case were tipped off to the elaborate scheme by a suspect who hoped to be granted leniency for his cooperation. The suspect, identified by The Wall Street Journal as Morrie Tobin, who attended Yale University and is now a Los Angeles financial executive, reportedly told investigators that the college’s soccer coach had sought a bribe in exchange for getting his daughter into the school.
This week, the campus was mostly quiet because of Spring Break. But students were still abuzz about the scandal. Britton O’Daly, the editor-in-chief of the Yale Daily News, which has published three stories about the university’s connection, said he was spending the week in silence at a French monastery. But he could not stop himself from “sneaking away from monks to check my phone because of all this.”
Students whose parents were charged in the case could not be reached for comment this week. But Jack Buckingham, whose mother, Jane Buckingham, is accused of paying $50,000 for an ACT proctor to take the test in his place, told The Hollywood Reporter that he was unknowingly involved in a plot that gave those “who may not work as hard as others an advantage over those who truly deserve those spots.”
“For that I am sorry,” he told the publication, adding that this might “finally cut down on money and wealth being such a heavy factor in college admissions.”
Olivia Jade Giannulli, a 19-year-old social media influencer whose celebrity parents were accused of paying $500,000 in bribes for her and her sister to be falsely recruited to U.S.C.’s rowing team, has remained silent. But she was dropped from a sponsorship with a makeup company and her Instagram account has been the target of vitriol.
This week, as the scandal unfolded and her parents were arrested, Ms. Giannulli was celebrating Spring Break on a yacht owned by a U.S.C. Board of Trustees member. On Thursday, TMZ reported that she and her sister, also a U.S.C. student, decided to drop out over fears of being bullied and would not return to campus next week.
Still, there was also a measure of sympathy for those unwittingly caught in their parents’ alleged deception.
“I know that I would feel pretty ashamed if my parents were embroiled in a scandal of this magnitude,” Ms. Wolfrom said. “If I were in their position, I am not sure I’d show up to class again anytime soon.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
President Trump, who has frequently pointed to the violent MS-13 street gang to justify his immigration policy, could not have choreographed a better political talking point if he had tried. Two days before Tuesday’s State of the Union address, a deadly shooting on a Queens subway platform catapulted the gang’s brutality back onto the national stage.
The police have said the man charged with the killing, Ramiro Gutierrez, is a member of MS-13, a transnational gang founded in Los Angeles with ties to El Salvador. The slaying featured prominently in Mr. Trump’s address.
Mr. Gutierrez, 26, was in the country without documentation and had a long arrest record, the authorities said. He is accused of firing six shots at close range into a rival gang member’s head in front of horrified straphangers. At the time, Mr. Gutierrez was out on $2,500 bail after being arrested in a gang takedown last December.
But missing from Mr. Trump’s speech was an important nuance: The shooting does not signal a recent rise of the gang in Queens, experts said. Neither MS-13, nor its rival, the 18th Street gang, is new to New York City. They have been a violent presence in the city for two decades, despite repeated prosecutions, and the shooting on Sunday was just the latest incident in a complicated history between the two gangs.
Around 12:45 p.m. on Sunday, a fight broke out between four men on a Manhattan-bound 7 train. When the train pulled into the 90th Street-Elmhurst Avenue Station, the brawl spilled out onto the platform.
In a bystander’s video, a man the police later identified as Mr. Gutierrez is shown extricating himself from the melee and standing up, grasping what appears to be a small revolver. Mr. Gutierrez, who is from El Salvador, can then be seen pointing the gun at a man on the ground wearing a Mets jersey — later identified as Abel Mosso.
Six shots rang out, as bystanders screamed and ran for cover on the stalled train. Mr. Mosso was struck several times in the face and died on the platform. The police arrested Mr. Gutierrez on Monday on charges of murder and gang assault.
Mr. Mosso, a Mexican citizen, was a purported member of the 18th Street Gang. Both men, according to immigration officials, were in the United States without documentation.
Though both gangs began in Southern California in the mid-1980s and quickly became archrivals, MS-13 and 18th Street had established a presence in eastern Queens, and neighboring Nassau and Suffolk Counties by the mid-1990s.
Lou Savelli, a former sergeant and head of the Police Department’s first citywide gang unit, said MS-13 and 18th Street have been active in New York City and the surrounding region ever since. Mr. Savelli, who retired from the department in 2004, first encountered MS-13 while working gang cases in the 109th precinct in Flushing.
During MS-13’s early years in New York, the gang would sometimes be targeted by the squad for acts of violence, he said. “We did some short-term things on machete cases where they chopped up one guy, shot and killed another guy, and another case where they ran an auto-theft ring,” Mr. Savelli said.
The rival 18th Street gang was less organized, Mr. Savelli said.
Raphael Ramos, a former sergeant in the Queens gang squad, said the 18th Street gang controls the lucrative trade in forged documents along Roosevelt Avenue between 90th Street and 82nd Street.
“Historically, that’s been their territory, and they’re known as M-18,” Mr. Ramos said.
The Queens district attorney and the United States attorney’s office in Brooklyn have filed dozens of criminal cases against MS-13 members over the past decade, with charges including racketeering, conspiracy, murder, fraud and robbery.
Aided by statements like Mr. Trump’s in his State of the Union address, MS-13 has achieved an almost mythic level of infamy in the world of street gangs. Their notoriously gruesome killings — members have been known to cut the hearts out of victims or hack people to death with machetes — began surfacing in New York and Long Island as far back as the mid-1990s.
The gang has plagued Long Island and Queens in recent years with a series of brutal slayings. In 2016, the gang killed two teenage girls in Brentwood — Nisa Mickens, 15, and her best friend Kayla Cuevas, 16 — in a case that drew national attention and landed the victims’ parents an invitation to Mr. Trump’s first State of the Union address.
Last summer, 15-year-old Angel Soler was found in a Long Island field, hacked to death by a machete, a murder law enforcement officials attributed to MS-13. And in December, a 23-year-old man was found dead in a Queens bird sanctuary after MS-13 members lured him there, prosecutors said.
Beyond murder and assault, the MS-13 gang has also been linked to drug and gun trafficking, as well as extortion and racketeering schemes; the 18th Street gang is better known for prostitution, protection rackets and selling forged documents.
Still, the gangs exist in pockets of the city, and the violence they generate is seldom random, law enforcement officials said. Often, it involves turf wars and other immigrants. Other gangs — the Bloods, the Crips, the Latin Kings, the Trinitarios — are a higher priority for the New York Police Department.
“I wouldn’t put them at the top of the pecking order of what we see day in and day out,” said Chief Dermot Shea, who runs the department’s detective bureau.
It took years for law enforcement to sketch out MS-13’s inner workings, and to recognize its hierarchy. It was far more organized than most street gangs, almost akin to the Mafia, prosecutors said.
That learning curve helped MS-13 survive.
“The guys who get caught with the gun at the murder scene, they’re going to be replaced,” said James Trusty, a former prosecutor who led the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Division. “The only way you’re going to actually dent the organization as a whole has got to be holistic.”
As MS-13 established its foothold in the mid-2000s, approaches to crackdowns varied between the three major American metropolises where the gang existed — New York, Los Angeles and Washington.
Prosecutors in Los Angeles and outside the capital built complicated conspiracy cases, taking out MS-13 leaders, but in New York prosecutors favored striking fast, arresting two or three people at a time after murders and robberies.
Long Island prosecutors changed their tactics after a spike in MS-13 violence in 2016 and 2017 led to at least 22 killings. Madeline Singas, the Nassau district attorney, indicted 17 MS-13 members in January 2018, including the man believed to be the highest-ranking member in the Northeast.
“It’s tough for the organization to bounce back from that,” Ms. Singas said.
Still, Ms. Singas said she does not believe that Long Island’s crackdown pushed the gang west into Queens.
“They were in Queens before, too,” she said. “It’s not like they moved there because Nassau became inhospitable to them.”
NEW DELHI — International insurance companies on Friday threatened to end travel coverage to Nepal if the government did not crack down on elaborate helicopter rescue scams that target foreigners trekking near Mount Everest and other high-altitude peaks.
Last year, investigations by the Nepali government and Traveller Assist, a medical assistance company based in Ireland, found that some trek operators, guides, helicopter companies and even doctors and hospitals had conspired to bilk millions of dollars from insurance companies by pushing for emergency mountainside evacuations for minor illnesses, or when simpler treatment options were available.
The guides preyed on trekkers when they were most vulnerable — trudging up remote trails, cold, wet, sick, confused and miles from any well-serviced towns.
The Nepali government found evidence that some guides went as far as intentionally making hikers ill by spiking their food with large amounts of baking soda, which can cause vomiting, diarrhea and other ailments, and then calling for an emergency helicopter evacuation.
These evacuations can cost as much as $40,000 each, depending on how many trekkers are on board, and insurance companies are often stuck with the bill.
Jonathan Bancroft, the managing director of Traveller Assist, which represents three insurance underwriters, questioned why the government has yet to file charges against 17 Nepali companies accused of fraud or tax evasion.
In a letter delivered to Nepal’s minister of tourism on Friday, Mr. Bancroft wrote that if the government did not bring charges against these companies, all of which are reportedly still in business, the insurance underwriters would cut off coverage for Nepal starting from Feb. 15.
“To be clear, this is an ultimatum!” Mr. Bancroft wrote. “If our clients stop issuing travel insurance policies in Nepal, it won’t be long until other insurers do the same. This will have a devastating effect on the tourism industry in Nepal, and your country’s reputation.”
The three insurance underwriters, which control 23 travel insurance brands that cover over 100,000 travelers to Nepal annually, were not identified in the letter. Their market share is sizable: Just over a million tourists visited Nepal last year. Many of them embarked on remote hikes flanked by some of the world’s highest mountains.
Most trekking operators in Nepal are upstanding and see client safety as a key concern. Aware of the risks associated with traveling to high altitudes, many visitors buy travel insurance costing several hundred dollars, opting for plans that include emergency helicopter rescues. To ensure proper acclimatization on the way to places like Everest Base Camp, which sits more than 17,000 feet above sea level, hikes are spread over days.
But according to government officials, insurers and employees in Nepal’s tourism industry, some mountain guides earn commissions from trekking operators by pressuring inexperienced hikers to be flown back to Kathmandu, the capital, at the first minor signs of altitude sickness.
Trekkers are dissuaded from exploring other options, like taking medicine, going to clinics along the hiking route or simply descending a few thousand feet, which solves many cases of altitude sickness. As a scare tactic, the common cold or fatigue are sometimes purposefully mischaracterized as acute mountain sickness, which can be deadly in an advanced stage.
In Kathmandu, hospitals involved in the fraud perform unnecessary tests, exaggerate symptoms and even hold on to trekkers’ passports to prevent them from leaving.
In another version of the scam, healthy hikers agree to a helicopter rescue in exchange for a cut of money or a free ride off the trail.
When bills are submitted for insurance claims, helicopter companies and hospitals inflate prices for their services. Multiple insurance claims are submitted for a single helicopter ride when more than one trekker is on board.
Some trekking operators, which act as brokers and take a percentage of rescue fees from helicopter companies, make more money through evacuations than they do charging for hikes. The typical profit margin for each hiker heading to Everest might be just a few hundred dollars. Participating in the scam could net operators thousands of dollars in kickbacks.
The investigation last year by Traveller Assist found evidence of fraud by four hospitals and 13 helicopter, charter and rescue companies. The separate investigation by Nepal’s government identified most of those same companies. A few dozen more trekking companies are thought to be involved.
“To say this is a complex problem is an understatement,” said Danny Kaine, head of assistance at Traveller Assist. “Fraud and corruption in the helicopter rescue industry in Nepal are so ingrained in some companies. It has become an accepted way of doing business.”
Insurance companies initially struggled to track the fraud, though it has been occurring since at least the early 2010s. But over the last few years, the number of insurance claims from Nepal shot up dramatically.
Alarmed at the increase, travel insurance companies created internal blacklists of Nepali helicopter companies and hospitals, posted advisories warning trekkers of the scam and raised premiums.
Traveller Assist found that about 1,600 helicopter rescues had occurred in Nepal from January to August 2018, out of which 35 percent were considered fraudulent, costing insurers some $4 million in losses.
In September, Nepal’s government introduced a new monitoring program that required companies to submit bills to the department of tourism to ensure that they were genuine.
But Mr. Bancroft, in his letter, wrote, “Not a single charge has been laid.” From September to December 2018, Traveller Assist determined that about 15 percent of some 1,600 rescues during that period were fraudulent.
In interviews, Nepali officials blamed each other.
Ghanshyam Upadhaya, a spokesman for the ministry of tourism, said his office had sent their findings to other ministries — health, home, finance and civil aviation — but was waiting to hear back.
Ramkrishna Subedi, a spokesman for the Home Ministry, shifted responsibility back to the Tourism Ministry to “take action.”
Another government official who was formerly at the Tourism Ministry, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that nothing had been done on the issue.
Penalties could spill out of the country.
Madhab Prasad Bhattarai, a Nepali lawyer, said corporate fraud was a criminal offense in Nepal, and tax evasion, which some companies are also accused of, could be considered a criminal or civil offense. Both are punishable by fines and jail time.
But because fraud was committed against travel insurance companies based outside Nepal, the cases could be escalated to law enforcement agencies in countries like the United States or Britain. Foreign travel insurance companies that continue to entertain claims from Nepali companies charged with fraud could also be investigated, said Mr. Kaine of Traveller Assist.
“It’s a vicious circle,” he said . “Some insurers and assistance providers are facilitating the fraud by paying large invoice amounts without any questions being asked. This makes our job all the more difficult.”
The saga of the medical testing company Theranos and its founder, Elizabeth Holmes, is a swirling one, packed with lies, greed, secret romance, literal blood, metaphorical blood, power, secrecy and money.
And the Army. And science. And Walgreens. It’s a wild tale: Holmes was a 19-year-old Stanford student when she dropped out of school to launch Theranos, a company she said was developing a blood-testing device that could run hundreds of tests from just a finger-prick of blood rather than whole vials. But it couldn’t.
The story of Theranos’s Silicon Valley rise and eventual total collapse — the company has dissolved, and Holmes was indicted on fraud charges — has lent itself to multiple retellings in various formats, including long-read articles, a meticulously researched book and a podcast, among others.
Alex Gibney’s documentary “The Inventor: Out for Blood In Silicon Valley,” premiering Monday on HBO, is the latest account of the ostensible visionary who managed to deceive a lot of people (including two former secretaries of state). If you’re already deeply familiar with the story, certain points won’t come as a surprise: Holmes’s apparent fascination with Steve Jobs and Apple is mentioned constantly across all the retellings (her black turtleneck aesthetic especially), as is her deep voice, perhaps an affectation, even though it’s really only notable if it’s fake.
But if you just can’t get enough of this Silicon Valley fraud, or don’t know where to begin, this is your guide to what to watch, read and listen to.
If you really want to go along for the full Theranos ride, start with the hagiographies, which together demonstrate just how easy it was for many in media to buy into Holmes’s persona and vision. Read the Fortune article from 2014, a Wired piece from 2014 or the New Yorker story from 2014 where Holmes, when asked to explain how a Theranos device actually works, said “a chemistry is performed.” She was on the cover of Forbes in 2014 as the youngest female self-made billionaire, and there’s also her Time 100 blurb from 2015 written by Henry Kissinger, a Theranos board member. She was on the cover of T Magazine, too, just before the scandal broke.
“Bad Blood” is the real be-all end-all of Theranos information, and some of the other material on this list draws heavily from it. The Wall Street Journal reporter John Carreyrou first broke the story of Theranos’s deceptions in 2015, and this comprehensive and fascinating book details every step in the company’s history and every step in his dogged reporting. “Bad Blood” is wild, and more happens on one page than in many other entire books. (There’s a Saddam Hussein cameo!)
Beyond the staggering facts Carreyrou reports out, this is the only work here that really drives home just how long it took for the truth to emerge. At one point while I was tearing through the book, I thought I must be getting pretty close to the company’s collapse; then I tapped my Kindle and discovered I was only 23 percent of the way through.
The six-part podcast “The Dropout,” produced by ABC Radio and ABC News’s “Nightline,” covers some of the same ground as “Bad Blood” and includes many of the same major players (including Erika Cheung, a former Theranos employee and one of the original whistle-blowers, and Carreyrou himself. The episodes wander a little — uh, Holmes always carrying papers around in high school does not seem like a particularly salient detail — but the portions that emphasize the legal side of things are quite juicy. “The Dropout” includes audio clips from depositions and spends a lot of time on the upcoming legal battles for Holmes and Theranos’s former president and chief operating officer, Ramesh Balwani, known as Sunny, who was also Holmes’s boyfriend. (On Friday, ABC also aired a “20/20” special of the same name.)
“The Inventor: Out For Blood In Silicon Valley” airs on HBO Monday at 9 p.m. While it, too, hits many of the same beats as “Bad Blood,” it also expands its scope a bit to examine the psychology of fraud, but in more specific (and compelling) ways than “The Dropout” does. The film’s director, Alex Gibney, also directed “Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room,” “The Armstrong Lie” (about the disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong) and “Going Clear” (about Scientology), among other docs, and this zips along with calm expertise. The footage from a batch of Theranos promotional videos directed by Errol Morris might be able to bend time with the potency of its irony, as Holmes gazes right into the too-bright lights and chuckles that she doesn’t have any secrets. “The Inventor” also notes some of the dangers of handling blood — and that Theranos machines would be, you know, full of blood even if they did work great, which they did not.
Jennifer Lawrence is set to star as Holmes in a feature-film version of “Bad Blood,” adapted by Vanessa Taylor (“The Shape of Water”) and directed by Adam McKay. The project was first reported in 2016 and is in development, but doesn’t have a release date yet. We’ll see!
According to Vanity Fair, Holmes got a dog and named him Balto, and he peed in the Theranos offices.
While the controversy surrounding Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the former cabinet minister Jody Wilson-Raybould and a criminal case against SNC-Lavalin has preoccupied Canadians for about a month, it was over the last week that it seemed to capture international attention.
We’ve been reporting on the story more or less from the beginning. And throughout that time, some broad differences have emerged in the responses from Canada and American readers. While online comments may not necessarily reflect general public opinion, many Canadians who wrote in didn’t seem to accept Mr. Trudeau’s assessment that no one in his government did anything improper.
[Want the Canada Letter newsletter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]
Here’s one take on events from Ellen Buckley, a reader from Toronto:
But many American readers noted that, despite the attempts by Mr. Trudeau and others to settle the criminal case against SNC-Lavalin with a large fine, the prosecution continues. Combined with the fact that no one pocketed any money or obviously benefited politically, those readers seem puzzled that the issue has created so much political turmoil in Canada, particularly when contrasted with the current upheaval in Washington.
Here’s an excerpt from a comment from a user going by “astaritt,” who lives in Washington:
To be sure, some Canadians said that they support the government, and some readers from outside of the country endorsed Mr. Trudeau or his aides.
For those of you who are catching up, here’s our reporting from the past week about the controversy which, inconveniently, has so far failed to develop a widely accepted shorthand name:
• Will Canadian Women Turn Their Backs on Their Feminist Prime Minister?: A story many women characterize as a group of mostly men ganging up on a female cabinet minister may have undermined Mr. Trudeau’s standing with female voters.
• An Unapologetic Trudeau Speaks Up on Political Crisis Rattling Canada: Mr. Trudeau has made saying sorry a regular ritual of his time in office — but he declined to do so in a public statement on the controversy Thursday.
• Trudeau’s Ex-Adviser and Close Friend Denies Pressuring Canada’s Justice Minister in Criminal Case: Early in the scandal, Gerald Butts, Mr. Trudeau’s longtime friend, quit as his top political aide. Though now an outsider, he was the first person this week to testify on the government’s version of events.
• Friend, Adviser, Witness: Trudeau’s Fate Could Hinge on Confidant’s Testimony: They were college friends, canoeing pals, and in one another’s wedding parties. Read our profile of Gerald Butts.
• 2nd Trudeau Minister Resigns as Canada’s Political Crisis Swells: Things hit a new low for the Liberals at the start of the week when Jane Philpott, a highly respected minister, quit the cabinet in solidarity with Ms. Wilson-Raybould.
• How Justin Trudeau Was Ensnared by Scandal: A Corruption Case and ‘Veiled Threats’: Can’t make sense of it all? We break down the SNC-Lavalin affair and its origins.
And in another sign of growing interest in Mr. Trudeau’s political crisis, The Times’s Opinion section also weighed in this week:
• The Editorial Board — Oh, Trudeau. “In politics the fresher the face, the more obvious the blemishes,” writes The Times’s editorial board.
• Opinion — Canadian Politics Aren’t Cute. They’re Corrupt. The Calgary journalist Jen Gerson questioned the coziness of Canada’s elite in The Times’s Opinion section.
Regardless of your take on the affair, one thing everyone can likely agree with Ms. Buckley on is that it doesn’t seem about to imminently vanish. So please check our Canada section over the coming days, and perhaps weeks, for continued coverage.
On March 19 we’re gathering Dan Bilefsky, my colleague based in Montreal; Chris Buckley, a member of our team of correspondents in Beijing; Katie Benner, our United States Justice Department expert; and Raymond Zhong, a Times technology reporter, to talk about the Chinese telecom giant Huawei, the arrest of its chief financial officer in Vancouver and what it all means to Canada.
Times subscribers are invited to participate. Please check out the details and sign up for free, here.
Dan was in Vancouver for much of the past week, partly to look into what the city thinks about Meng Wanzhou, its globally famous detainee.
[Read: Meng Wanzhou’s Cushy Bail Is Raising Hackles in Canada]
Ms. Meng, of course, is the Huawei executive and daughter of the company’s founder, who was arrested by the Mounties in early December while changing planes at Vancouver’s airport. She was picked up at the request of the United States government, which has accused her of, among other things, committing fraud by lying to banks about the company’s efforts to go around American sanctions on Iran.
The case has left Canada trapped between two global superpowers. Dan found that many people in Vancouver are not thrilled by Ms. Meng’s protracted stay under house arrest in the city, where she owns two homes with her husband.
“To some, she is yet another wealthy foreigner who has used the city as a real estate investment, helping make it one of the most unaffordable cities in North America,” Dan wrote. “And they contrast her predicament — able to travel relatively freely about the city, if with a GPS tracker around her ankle and under 24-hour surveillance — with that of their fellow citizens, several of whom have been arrested by China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Meng’s arrest.”
This week, China ratcheted up tensions by formally accusing two of the Canadians it arrested of involvement in a spy plot.
[Read: China Accuses Two Canadians of Spying, Widening a Political Rift]
Finally, be sure to check out Dan’s explainer about Ms. Meng and her deportation hearing, which began this week.
[Read: What You Need to Know About the Huawei Court Case in Canada]
—Sebastian Modak, our Travel columnist who is making his way through The Times’s 52 Place to Go list, visited Lake Superior’s ice caves near Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, and found an unusual adventure: “There are no signboards. I didn’t come across any organized tours to the caves and going out on the ice in search of them is dangerous.”
— Expressions of support and offers of help poured in for Alex Trebek, the son of Sudbury, Ontario, whose role as the longtime host of “Jeopardy!” has made him a celebrity in the United States, after he revealed a cancer diagnosis this week.
— Twenty-one years have passed since Michael J. Fox, another Canadian who found fame across the border, revealed his Parkinson’s diagnosis. He told The New York Times magazine that he’s “developed a relationship with Parkinson’s where I gave the disease its room to do what it needed to do and it left me areas I could still flourish in.”
— Duncan Keith, the three-time Stanley Cup champion from Penticton, British Columbia, shares his workout and wellness secrets.
— Costas Spiliadis made Milos a global restaurant empire, one that’s long had a Montreal outpost. A competitor in Montreal said that before Milos, a Greek restaurant was a place with a couple of guys in “paper hats standing in front of a shawarma machine.”
— Norway may move to divest some of the energy industry holdings in its national wealth fund that were based on oil and gas revenues. For Canada, which is struggling to find foreign investment in the sector, the move is worrying.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Thousands of people watched in shock from the banks of the Seine, and many more were riveted to television screens, as flames tore through the beloved medieval landmark’s wooden roof, and the spire collapsed. Gray smoke filled the Paris sky into the night.
Tourists and residents alike came to a standstill, pulling out their phones to call their loved ones. Older Parisians wept over the loss of a national treasure.
For hours, hundreds of French firefighters battled to contain the blaze. No one was killed or injured, officials said.
Cause: None had been identified as of this writing, but officials said the fire had begun in the attic. The cathedral is currently undergoing extensive renovation work, and several statues were lifted by crane from the spire last week.
Go deeper: We have photos and video of the disaster, and a short history of this scarred jewel of Gothic architecture. 
Ahead of the presidential election on Wednesday, candidates are polishing their religious credentials to appeal to growing conservatism.
The incumbent is Joko Widodo. His victory in 2014 was seen as a triumph for moderate Islam, but he’s veering right as he runs for re-election. His opponent, Prabowo Subianto — a European-educated son of a Christian — has also embraced the language of hard-line Islam.
Background: Indonesia, home to the world’s largest Muslim population, has long been considered a shining example of how Islam and democracy can coexist.
But in the past few years, the country’s Muslim majority has embraced stricter interpretations of the religion, including Wahhabism, which dominates in Saudi Arabia. Hundreds of Indonesians went to Syria and Iraq to join the Islamic State, and more cheer on the group on social media.
With the 2020 election over a year away, President Trump is turning back to a strategy that resonated with his older, white voting base — playing on fears of Muslims.
This time, he has a specific target: Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress.
Last week, Mr. Trump posted a video on Twitter of a speech by Ms. Omar interspersed with video of the Sept. 11 attacks. And his advisers describe her as an ideal foil who could be used to paint the entire Democratic Party as extreme.
Anti-immigration agenda: Our reporters have the back story behind the Trump administration’s recent purge of high-ranking immigration officials.
The key ingredient: the fury of Stephen Miller, the 33-year-old White House senior adviser. He clashed for months with the officials, pushing for policies they saw as legally questionable, impractical, unethical or unreasonable.
Prosecutors brought criminal charges of aggravated fraud against the executive, Martin Winterkorn, for his role in the automaker’s yearslong effort to deceive regulators about its vehicles’ diesel emissions.
If convicted, Mr. Winterkorn could receive up to 10 years in prison.
Details: German prosecutors said the charges were linked to events from 2006, when the deception was initially conceived, to 2015, when it first came to light. Prosecutors say that Mr. Winterkorn tried to conceal the emissions fraud even after he was told that it was beginning to raise some questions.
Reminder: Last May, the U.S. Justice Department also charged Mr. Winterkorn with fraud, placing the scandal within the upper echelons of the company for the first time.
Bangladesh is responsible for just 0.3 percent of global carbon emissions, yet it is one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change. Already, cyclones are stronger and more frequent.
Survival takes many forms. In one area, people scavenge the debris left after storm surges devastated their village to sell to those rebuilding, making enough money to feed their children and send them to school.
New Zealand: A rift emerged on Monday between the country’s government and the Red Cross over the humanitarian organization’s decision to identify a New Zealand nurse who was kidnapped by the Islamic State five years ago — and who her employer believes could still be alive.
Japan: The operator of the Fukushima nuclear power plant has begun removing radioactive fuel rods at one of the reactors that melted down after an earthquake and a tsunami in 2011, a major milestone in the long-delayed cleanup effort.
South Korea: President Moon Jae-in said that he wanted to meet again with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, even after Mr. Kim dismissed Mr. Moon’s mediating efforts between the North and the United States as “officious.”
Canada: Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whose cabinet by design has equal numbers of men and women, has been fighting to salvage his feminist credentials after the country’s first Indigenous female attorney general quit accusing Mr. Trudeau of inappropriately pressuring her in a criminal case.
“Game of Thrones”: Here’s a recap of the first episode of the HBO show’s last ever season. Don’t read this if you haven’t watched it yet — or at least don’t tell us we didn’t warn you about the spoilers.
Snapshot: Above, “Game of Thrones” tourists in Ballintoy Harbour, Northern Ireland, which has stood in for several locations in Westeros. The hit HBO series has transformed the tourism industry in Northern Island, generating $65 million a year.
What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. Tom Jolly, who oversees production of our daily print edition, writes: “This is a nice distillation of the joys of reading the newspaper, at your own pace, uninterrupted by texts, calls and general attention-deficit issues. And you can even model your robe for your neighbors!”
Cook: With some advance preparation, you can cook buttermilk-marinated roast chicken. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Listen: “Boy With Luv,” the new song by the K-pop stars BTS, features the American singer Halsey singing in Korean, exactly the sort of bilingual exchange that’s all too rare, Jon Caramanica writes.
Watch: The new TV adaptation of “Les Misérables” hews much more closely to Victor Hugo’s often tragic novel than to the musical version.
Go: The musical “Beetlejuice” is now in previews on Broadway. Here’s how the eye-popping set came together.
Smarter Living: Simone Davies, an author and Montessori teacher, took our writer through a calming makeover of her children’s playroom. The main idea: Kids play more when there’s less to play with. So toys and books went into a closet, to be rotated out a few at a time. A quilt with pillows marked out a reading corner. Older children’s crafts went into accessible bins. And the baby got a ground-level, stocked play space.
Experts at Wirecutter have recommendations to affordably make your flight less dismal and more enjoyable.

In smaller cities and rural areas of the U.S., demographic decline is a painful reality. Hungary is stressing about its declining population. Same with Japan. Even China.
It’s an economic truism: Growing populations drive economies.
But in this era of climate change, is it wiser to have fewer people to house, feed and provide power for?
Globally, a smaller population would “make a difference, certainly,” said Joseph Chamie, a former U.N. population official. “Fewer people means fewer items consumed, and fewer resources used, so your carbon footprint would be less.”
But limiting population growth, he said, can’t solve the environmental problems caused by mass production and consumption, especially in wealthier parts of the world.
And companies whose business models rely on constant growth have little incentive to change. More customers and more consumption mean more profits.
“We can try to maintain the quality of the environment,” Mr. Chamie said. “But we have to change our mind-set regarding how the economy moves.”
 [Want to get New York Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.]
It’s Monday. 📰 On this day in 1983, the famous “Headless Body in Topless Bar” headline was published in The New York Post. The man who wrote it: Vincent Musetto. 
Weather: The week starts wet and may end wet. Today, expect rain in the morning, with possible showers later and wind gusts above 40 miles per hour in the afternoon. 
Alternate-side parking: In effect through Wednesday, then suspended through Saturday for Holy Thursday, Good Friday and Passover. 
Subway fares will increase on Sunday. Soon after that, L train service will be disrupted on nights and weekends. (And, of course, big dogs in bags will be a fixture in your subway future, too.) 
In light of all that, it’s easy to forget that the subway was once grand and majestic: chandeliers and skylights, graceful arches and vaulted ceilings.
There’s one subway station that still has all those glamorous features, and you’re not allowed to explore it — except on a special tour.
Where is the station?
 It’s right under City Hall in Lower Manhattan.
 It’s technically one stop south of the Brooklyn Bridge-City Hall stop. Southbound No. 6 trains head into the old station, using it as a turnaround to get onto the northbound tracks at Brooklyn Bridge.
How can I see it?
The station is accessible only to members of the New York Transit Museum. Members can buy tickets for the next round of tours starting Wednesday. 
Or, if you forget to get off the No. 6 before the train turns around, you can see the unused station through the window. And if you’re standing in front of City Hall closer to the Broadway side, you can see a few glass cubes embedded in the pavement. That’s the roof of the old station.
When was it used? 
It opened Oct. 27, 1904, and closed Dec. 31, 1945. 
Why isn’t it used anymore?
The station was closed in part because its curved platform was too short to accommodate longer, newer trains, and it did not line up with their doors, leaving dangerous gaps, according to Polly Desjarlais, the New York Transit Museum’s education manager.
Also, not many riders were using it.
What else is down there?
There is surprisingly little dirt and grime, according to The Times’s Winnie Hu, who was among a group of reporters on a recent tour of the station. There were no rats in sight, she said, and only a smattering of graffiti was visible.
According to Ms. Hu, riders once passed through a pair of kiosks that were modeled on those used in the subway system in Budapest. Inside, at a carved-oak booth, tickets were sold for a nickel.
Who built it?
The vaulted ceilings and tiled arches are by the Spanish architects Rafael Guastavino Moreno and his son, Rafael Guastavino Esposito, whose handiwork graces the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Terminal, the Registry Room at Ellis Island and the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine.
A commemorative bronze plaque on the wall was made by Gutzon Borglum, who later sculpted the presidents on Mount Rushmore. 
The skylights were made to amplify daylight down below.
Were other stations like this?
None were quite like this. The City Hall station anchored an inaugural subway system that was made up of 28 stations along 9.1 miles of track running to 145th Street in Upper Manhattan, Ms. Hu reported.
The system was built in four years and seven months by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company for $35 million, or roughly the equivalent of $972 million now, according to museum officials. 
That is a fraction of the roughly $4.4 billion that it cost to build the first section of the Second Avenue line on the Upper East Side, including three new stations.
He committed a $300 million fraud but got out of prison under President Trump’s justice overhaul.
A Fordham student died after she fell from the campus bell tower.
A possible hazing episode caused SUNY Buffalo to suspend fraternity and sorority activities.
She was forced to marry in Bangladesh. In Brooklyn, she made her escape.
One in five bus riders in New York City evades the fare, far worse than elsewhere.
Here are the stories that inspired readers to give $5.6 million last year.
[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]
The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.
Three construction workers were killed in New York City last week. [NY1]
Could congestion pricing help lead to wider sidewalks, expanded bike lanes and more pedestrian plazas in Manhattan? [Wall Street Journal]
The top two streets for complaints about drag racing are in Queens. [New York Post]
The police asked the M.T.A. to cut subway service to Roosevelt Island because of “significant crowding after the Cherry Blossom Festival.” [Gothamist]
Here are other places in the city where you can see cherry blossoms. [Curbed] 
The Bronx Library Center hosts a discussion and screening of the documentary “The Latino Americans” for Immigrant Heritage Week. 2 p.m. [Free]
What do jazz and neuroscience have in common? Experts in each field explain at the Forum at Columbia University in Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free]
The author George Chauncey discusses his book “Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940” at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6:30 p.m. [$10]
— Iman Stevenson
Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.
The Times’s Corey Kilgannon reports:
Last summer, a curious temple to surfing appeared on an unused lot on Beach 96th Street in the Rockaways, Queens, a block from the ocean.
“I always felt Rockaway needed something to show how important surfing and surf culture is here,” said its creator, Fernando Pires, 59, a longtime Rockaways surfer and a fixture on the boardwalk who repairs surfboards in the sand and gives surf lessons.
Mr. Pires spent more than a year building what he called the Secret Spot Surf Museum, a display of dozens of vintage surfboards and memorabilia he had acquired over decades, often on surf trips.
He said he hoped the museum would ride the growing wave of surfing popularity in the Rockaways. But after only one summer, his dream has been dashed — at least for now.
The landlord, who had been letting him use the property for free, said he would now require monthly rent of $5,000, Mr. Pires said.
This was a prohibitive amount, Mr. Pires said, especially because he had sunk more than $20,000 of his own money into the museum, which relied on meager donations and whatever Mr. Pires earned repairing and renting out surfboards, and giving lessons.
The museum had a tiki décor, with shells and bamboo settings, and some local-themed exhibits, including memorials to Richie Allen and Steve Belson, two Rockaways surfers and New York City firefighters who died while responding to the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center.
Mr. Pires said he would begin dismantling the museum this week and putting his boards into storage in the hope he may find another location.
“The plan was that it would grow gradually, but I spent all my time building it, and I never promoted it,” he said. “So, I blame myself.”
It’s Monday: Ride somewhere new.
Dear Diary:
I noticed a woman in front of my local supermarket asking a man for directions. I also noticed that he looked as baffled as she did.
As a proud New Yorker who loves giving directions, I decided to step in. I’ve lived in the city long enough to be confident that I am usually correct.
We were at 15th Street and Seventh Avenue, and the woman was asking how to get to an address on Seventh Avenue South. I told her she only needed to go south from where we were, that if she just kept walking Seventh Avenue would turn into Seventh Avenue South and she would find the address she was looking for.
She thanked me, smiled and turned to set off. I told her it was my pleasure to help and gave her my standard, consistent, confident piece of advice: Just do as I advise and do not to ask anyone else for directions.
She smiled.
“Of course I trust you,” she said. “You’ve never lied to me before.” 
— Isolde Blum
New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.
We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.
They sound like the ingredients of a pulpy thriller: Bigamy. Secret religious conversions. A doctorate from a mail-order diploma mill. Affairs with powerful women.
The sordid list — a mixture of facts, accusations and insinuations, packaged in a glossy slide show — represents the crux of a well-orchestrated campaign by Goldman Sachs to discredit one of its former partners and to minimize the Wall Street bank’s role in the looting of a big Malaysian investment fund.
In recent presentations to American regulators and law enforcement authorities, according to people familiar with their contents, Goldman executives and their lawyers have depicted Tim Leissner, a former top investment banker, as a master con man, someone so sneaky that even the retired military intelligence officers who work for the bank couldn’t sniff him out.
The scorched-earth tactics, especially against someone who had been a star banker, reflect just how worried Goldman is about the criminal investigations into its role in the theft of at least $2.7 billion from the 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB, sovereign wealth fund.
One big reason for concern is that senior Goldman officials, including the bank’s chief executive at the time, helped win Malaysian business. And the relationship became a crucial engine of profits for the bank, generating about $600 million in fees.
The bank’s hope is that by casting Mr. Leissner as a rogue employee, Goldman will reduce its legal and reputational liability.
On Wednesday, in a sign of how the stakes are rising, Goldman disclosed that in the fourth quarter of 2018 it set aside an additional $516 million to cover potential legal and regulatory penalties, including those related to 1MDB. And executives said Goldman could owe $2 billion on top of what it has already put in its reserves.
“For Leissner’s role in that fraud, we apologize to the Malaysian people,” David M. Solomon, the bank’s chief executive, told analysts Wednesday. “As you would expect, we have looked back and continue to look back to see if there is anything that we as a firm could have done better.”
A Goldman spokesman, Michael DuVally, said that since Mr. Leissner left the bank in 2016, Goldman found new violations of its internal policies “that we have shared with the Department of Justice and other relevant authorities.”
While it’s not uncommon for companies to defend themselves by blaming lone employees, Goldman’s ad hominem attacks on Mr. Leissner stand out for their aggressive, charged nature. The bank has not presented authorities with proof to substantiate all of its allegations, and some of them — including a focus on Mr. Leissner’s supposedly converting to Islam on two occasions — are, at best, inflammatory.
Mr. Leissner, 48, has been criminally charged by American and Malaysian prosecutors with bribery and money laundering in connection with the theft from 1MDB. He pleaded guilty last year to the United States charges. He is scheduled to be sentenced in June. His lawyer did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
For years, Mr. Leissner was one of Goldman’s most powerful dealmakers in Asia. Among other things, he helped Goldman win lucrative assignments selling bonds for 1MDB. Mr. Leissner facilitated at least one meeting between Goldman’s chief executive at the time, Lloyd C. Blankfein, and a Malaysian financier named Jho Low, who subsequently was charged as the mastermind of the 1MDB theft.
Goldman suspended Mr. Leissner in 2016, and the bank’s executives have publicly faulted him for lying to Goldman and snaring the bank in the fraud.
But in private meetings with federal and state officials and employees in recent months, Goldman has intensified its efforts to blame Mr. Leissner, according to five people familiar with the bank’s campaign who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
In November, for example, the bank met with federal prosecutors in Washington and delivered a lengthy PowerPoint presentation that sought to paint Mr. Leissner as a man practiced in the art of deception, according to two people familiar with the presentation.
One slide in the presentation said that Mr. Leissner may have been briefly married to two women at the same time.
Another slide included a photo of Mr. Leissner praying with other men, as well as images of a government-issued ID card that showed Mr. Leissner describing himself as Muslim. The people familiar with the presentation said Goldman officials used the slide to claim that Mr. Leissner twice converted to Islam in order to impress wealthy Muslim women he was dating.
The inch-thick presentation also accused Mr. Leissner of having had a sexual relationship with at least one Goldman client and of having received a mail-order Ph.D. from a now-defunct university, the people said.
It isn’t clear what evidence Goldman has of the alleged affair, which bank officials believe took place before Mr. Leissner married the fashion designer and model Kimora Lee Simmons in 2013.
In addition to the Justice Department, Goldman delivered similar multi-hour presentations to bank regulators, the people said. As well as the section seeking to discredit Mr. Leissner, the presentation outlined the vetting Goldman performed before agreeing to sell bonds for 1MDB. It also had a section on Mr. Low, including clips from news articles describing him as a promising entrepreneur and investor.
In part, Goldman is using the presentation to argue that, given Mr. Leissner’s supposed slipperiness, the bank’s compliance system should not be faulted for failing to detect his scheme. The bank also is hoping to dissuade authorities from relying on any testimony or cooperation that Mr. Leissner might provide and that could put Goldman in a bad light.
As part of his guilty plea last year, Mr. Leissner admitted to misappropriating at least $50 million from 1MDB’s bond offerings and to deceiving Goldman about Mr. Low’s role in those deals. But Mr. Leissner also told a federal judge that hiding his actions from Goldman’s compliance department was “very much in line” with a wider culture at the firm, especially in Asia.
Senior executives at Goldman have been spreading the blame-the-rogue-employee message to its partners, according to six people familiar with Goldman’s efforts.
In December, Goldman held an annual dinner for retired partners at the Conrad Hotel in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Solomon talked about the 1MDB investigation, explaining that Goldman has muscular compliance programs but would not always be able to protect against ill-intentioned employees, according to five people who were there. They said they were struck by Mr. Solomon’s bitter tone.
Goldman’s efforts to defend itself by attacking Mr. Leissner’s behavior could raise more questions for the bank. Some Goldman executives knew about his alleged romantic relationships with clients, but the bank did not object to them until after Mr. Leissner became a target of investigations.
Five current and former Goldman bankers said in interviews that they were aware of Mr. Leissner’s hard-partying reputation and romantic overtures to wealthy women, including several who were executives at companies that were bank clients.
Joe Ravitch, a former Goldman partner who helped hire Mr. Leissner from Lehman Brothers in Hong Kong in 1999, said it was common knowledge that Mr. Leissner was misbehaving. “A lot of the people that worked for me would tell me the stories about Tim being a wild man,” he said.
In one case, Goldman investigated Mr. Leissner’s relationship with a top female executive of a Malaysian media company, but the bank ultimately didn’t take any action against Mr. Leissner, according to a Goldman official.
In Malaysia, where Goldman itself has been criminally charged, prosecutors and senior government officials are unlikely to be receptive to the bank’s claim that Mr. Leissner was a lone wolf.
“The whole world knows that their senior executives were involved with wrongdoing and don’t feel that guilty, so I think there needs to be some accountability,” said Malaysia’s finance minister, Lim Guan Eng, in an interview on Monday. “You have to show genuine remorse for what has happened. You must pay the penalty.”
JAKARTA, Indonesia — Indonesia's Election Supervision Agency said Tuesday about 320,000 overseas voters in neighboring Malaysia's biggest city should vote again in presidential and legislative elections after finding evidence that postal ballots had been tampered with.
Election officials rushed to Malaysia last week to investigate claims of vote fraud after videos circulated online showed thousands of ballots for Wednesday's elections scattered throughout a shophouse.
Opposition party representatives said the ballots for Indonesians living in Kuala Lumpur were marked in favor of President Joko Widodo, who is campaigning for re-election, and a legislative candidate who is the son of Indonesia's ambassador to Malaysia.
The agency "found legal ballot papers that allegedly were marked by non-legitimate voters at two locations in Selangor, Malaysia," said Rahmat Bagja, one of the agency's commissioners.
He said that requirements for the elections to be free, fair and honest were violated and recommended that Indonesia's Election Commission dismiss two members of the election organizing committee in Kuala Lumpur to avoid conflicts of interest.
One of them is Indonesia's deputy ambassador to Malaysia, Krishna Hannan.
The Election Commission is responsible for organizing elections and the Election Supervision Agency is responsible for overseeing them.
About 193 million Indonesians are eligible to vote in the elections for president, the Senate and national, provincial and district legislatures.
Opinion polls show Widodo has a large lead over his challenger, former special forces general Prabowo Subianto, whose campaign has repeatedly alleged major irregularities with voter rolls.
Bagja said the overseas vote in Sydney should be reopened because many expatriate Indonesians in the Australian city were unable to cast ballots in time.
___
This story has been corrected to show that the organization is the Election Supervision Agency, not Election Commission.
Nehanda Abiodun, a radical black nationalist who was charged in the deadly botched robbery of a Brink’s armored truck in 1981 and then spent decades as a fugitive in Cuba, a hero to would-be revolutionaries and a criminal to many others, died on Jan. 30 at her home in Havana. She was 68.
Her death was confirmed by Henry Louis Taylor Jr., a historian who has interviewed Ms. Abiodun for a biography of her he is writing with Linda McGlynn, a social worker and senior research fellow at the University at Buffalo, where Professor Taylor also teaches urban planning.
Self-described revolutionaries belonging to the Weather Underground and the Black Liberation Army committed a rash of domestic bombings and hijackings in the 1960s and ’70s in what they called resistance to the United States government. Ms. Abiodun (pronounced ah-BEE-oh-dun) was suspected of conspiring with members of both groups.
The radicals were charged with attacks against government targets and with helping another revolutionary, Assata Shakur (who was known as Joanne Chesimard before choosing an African name), escape in 1979 from a prison in New Jersey. Ms. Shakur had been convicted in the killing of a New Jersey state trooper in a shootout in 1973. The groups supported their activities with armed robberies.
On Oct. 21, 1981, a group of radicals tried to steal $1.6 million from a Brink’s armored truck in Nanuet, N.Y., a little less than 30 miles northwest of Manhattan. Several gunmen ambushed three Brink’s guards while they carried money out to the truck, killing one of them, Peter Paige. During their escape the gunmen got into a firefight with police officers at a roadblock in nearby Nyack, N.Y., and killed two, Edward O’Grady and Waverly Brown.
Some of the conspirators stole cars and fled, and some were captured right away; one of those seized was Kathy Boudin, who was driving a getaway car and had been on the run for about a decade. Others, like Mutulu Shakur (not related to Assata), who was said to have been the heist’s ringleader, were not apprehended for years.
Ms. Abiodun was indicted in 1982 on conspiracy, racketeering and other charges in the robbery, though the authorities released few specifics about what they believed was her specific role. She went underground before she was indicted and was never captured.
Ms. Abiodun never admitted to taking part in the crimes, but she did defend the perpetrators. She told The Miami New Times in 2000 that she had little sympathy for the police officers killed after the robbery.
“They were upholding the genocidal and oppressive policies of the United States,” she said. “They were soldiers who were at war with us.”
Ms. Abiodun hid out during most of the 1980s and had moved to Cuba by 1990, having received political asylum. There she joined dozens of American fugitives, including Ms. Shakur.
Many Americans viewed Ms. Abiodun and her comrades as unrepentant terrorists. Family members of the slain police officers and an officer wounded in the robbery expressed outrage when people who took part in the heist came up for parole or were granted it. At her death, the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s website listed Ms. Abiodun as a wanted domestic terrorist and offered $100,000 for information leading to her arrest.
Though Ms. Abiodun feared extradition to the United States, she made a point of speaking to activists and journalists.
“I have a commitment to those who have sacrificed their lives for us,” she told Ebony magazine in 2014. “I’m talking about from the time of slavery, the first Africans who were brought here, that gave their lives for us to be free.”
Ms. Abiodun was born Laverne Cheri Dalton in Harlem on June 29, 1950, to Wesley and Marge Dalton. Her mother worked for United Airlines, and her father was a bodyguard for Malcolm X for a time. Laverne grew up immersed in the black power movement.
After graduating from high school, she studied journalism at Columbia University. But she left before completing her degree to work in a methadone clinic in Harlem in the early 1970s, when an epidemic of heroin addiction was ravaging minority communities in New York.
She left the clinic to join an experimental rehabilitation facility in the South Bronx, the Lincoln Detox Center. The center, which was connected to activist groups like the Black Panthers and the Young Lords, a Puerto Rican-American organization, treated addicts with acupuncture and coupled their treatment with political education and community engagement.
The center’s spending came under government scrutiny, and Mayor Edward I. Koch shut the facility down in 1978.
“I began to understand the politics surrounding drug addiction, racism and control,” Ms. Abiodun said in 2014. “It was a way of, once again, capitalism trying to destroy our lives.”
She became more radicalized after the clinic closed, taking the name Nehanda Isoke Abiodun and joining the Republic of New Afrika, which sought to create an independent black country in the Southern states.
In Cuba Ms. Abiodun became a kind of grande dame of revolution. She taught political education and championed Cuban hip-hop, forming a Havana chapter of Black August, a grass-roots group that promotes the genre, and working to further the careers of Cuban rappers like the duo Obsesión. She said she saw hip-hop, at its best, as a way to address social problems.
Ms. Abiodun is survived by a son, a daughter and two grandchildren.
Professor Taylor, her biographer, said Ms. Abiodun told him that “all she wanted was to be a mom and lead a normal life, but the government created a condition where she had to fight back.”
Ms. Abiodun said that once she had committed to revolution, there was no turning back.
“I don’t have the luxury of changing my mind,” she said in 2014. “Freedom is freedom, and I’ve been fighting for freedom since I was 10 years old.”
DUBLIN — The head of a mummified Crusader, laid to rest in a Dublin church some 800 years ago, was stolen and a crypt vandalized, the police in Ireland discovered on Monday.
A second mummified body, believed to belong to a nun who died 300 years ago, was also badly damaged during a break-in at St. Michan’s church.
But the worst treatment was reserved for the crypt’s most famous occupant, a 13th-century corpse known as “The Crusader.”
“His legs were pushed up into his torso, his arms were moved to one side and his head has been decapitated,” said the Rev. David Pierpoint, the vicar of St. Michan’s and archdeacon of Dublin. “His head is gone.”
The police are still investigating the theft, but church officials are focused on retrieving the head.
“My biggest concern is to have the severed head of the Crusader returned to us in any form,” Mr. Pierpoint said, “so we can let him rest in peace.”
The intruders also defiled a section of the crypt that contains the bodies of the family of William Rowan Hamilton, a 19th-century mathematician who paved the way for modern quantum theory. One of the coffins was broken open and its contents were dragged out on the floor.
St. Michan’s, originally founded in 1095, is one of the most historic parish churches for Ireland’s Anglican congregation, the Church of Ireland, and is on the north side of the city center.
Its crypt is made of limestone, which draws the moisture out of the air inside, and its methane-rich soil reduces oxygen levels, making the atmosphere inside ideal for preservation. Many of the bodies laid to rest there have mummified.
St. Michan’s attracts around 28,000 paying visitors a year, who come to tour its small but historically significant interior, which includes the organ on which George Frideric Handel wrote his “Messiah” oratorio, and view the mummified bodies in their open coffins.
In the last century, visitors were even allowed to shake the Crusader’s leathery hand “for good luck.”
“We don’t know his name, but we know he’s about 800 years old and was probably a local parishioner,” said Mr. Pierpoint.
Because of the way the body was positioned — with arms and legs crossed, a common burial ritual for those who had taken part in the religious wars of the era — historians determined he had taken part in the Crusades.
He was also incredibly tall for the time, standing around 6 feet 6 inches tall, according to Mr. Pierpoint.
The Church of Ireland authorities say they have been inundated with offers of financial support following news of the break-in, but worry they may have to close the crypt permanently after the robbery.
Another section of the crypt was sealed after being vandalized in 1996 by three teenagers who broke in, dragged corpses into the churchyard and played football with the head of a little girl.
Mr. Pierpoint said he initially believed this week’s incident had been a similarly mindless act of vandalism, but he has since changed his mind.
Whoever attacked the church “came prepared, with crowbars and tools,” he said, which were used to remove solid iron and steel slabs from the front of the crypt. “My mind can’t get around the insanity of it, that anyone could do such a thing.”
The police said that they believed the break-in took place sometime over the weekend, but detailed forensic examinations are being carried out on the scene. Some of the robbery was also captured on CCTV footage.
The motive is still unclear, but the church authorities say they don’t believe there is any commercial market for such stolen relics.
There are fears that the ancient head, unless recovered quickly, will quickly disintegrate once exposed to air with normal moisture levels.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good morning. 
New Zealand honors victims of the Christchurch terrorist attack, confusion around Brexit thickens and digital mercenaries create a new global battleground. Here’s the latest: 
The Muslim call to prayer will be broadcast live across the country today, followed by a two-minute silence to honor the victims of the terrorist attack in Christchurch last week.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will attend a prayer service near Al Noor Mosque, one of the two mosques where a gunman killed 50 people.
Yesterday: Ms. Ardern announced a national ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons and all high-capacity ammunition magazines, a measure that could sail through Parliament.
She cited the gun controls Australia set in motion after a mass shooting in 1996: a mix of buybacks, registration and outright bans that severely reduced mass shootings.
A mistake: The first murder charge against the suspected gunman named a victim who survived. The charge sheet was to be corrected, and legal experts said the prosecution would not be impeded.
From the archives: Time and again, variants of the AK-47 have been used to kill scores of people and traumatize many more. In 2016, we looked at how the AK-47 became one of the world’s most abundant weapons.
While families were still mourning their loved ones killed in the Lion Air crash in October, they were herded into a hotel conference room and told to sign a document to receive a government-mandated compensation of 1.3 billion rupiah, about $91,600, for loss of life.
But the payment came with conditions. Many say they weren’t allowed time to study the document and didn’t know then that it included a clause prohibiting them from suing the carrier, its financial backers or Boeing.
Those conditions are now being questioned by legal experts. An Indonesian aviation act from 2011 specifies that heirs who receive government-mandated payments shouldn’t have limits on their right to sue the carrier or other entities involved.
Boeing: The two doomed 737 Max jets lacked optional safety features that Boeing sold separately at an additional cost. Now, the aircraft manufacturer is making those features standard as part of a fix to get the planes in the air again.
Ethiopian Airlines: Two months before Flight 302 crashed, the carrier had set up a simulator to teach pilots how to fly the new Boeing 737 Max 8 jet but the pilot on that ill-fated flight never used it. 
The European Union is considering pushing back Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc, on the condition that British lawmakers endorse Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular plan. 
Discussions in Brussels about the new deadline are still ongoing. Follow our correspondent, Stephen Castle, on Twitter for the latest updates. 

But an extension would only offer a flimsy reprieve: President Emmanuel Macron of France warned that if Parliament didn’t support Mrs. May’s withdrawal agreement next week, the country would be headed for a no-deal exit. Thousands of personnel are expected to begin preparing for that dreaded outcome on Monday.
Analysis: Amid the thickening fog of confusion, Mrs. May had one message for the country: blame Parliament.
“So far Parliament has done everything possible to avoid making a choice,” the frustrated prime minister said in a speech that critics described as “toxic” and dangerous. 
Small countries, corporations and even wealthy individuals all have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives from around the world.
This growing and barely-governed world of digital combat has enabled governments not only to hack terrorist groups and drug cartels but is also being used for darker impulses, like targeting activists and journalists, with the sophistication that was once the preserve of major world powers.
The F.B.I. is now investigating one of these firms, DarkMatter, after a former N.S.A. hacker working there grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I, a twist that reflects the murky new industry.
Takeaway: The rapid expansion of these private spying firms has prompted concerns about a dangerous and chaotic future where even governments with small budgets can wield immense damage.
How we know: Our monthslong investigation into the secret world of this high-tech battleground was based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies, as well as a review of documents. 
Nirav Modi: The Indian jewelry designer to the stars was arrested in London in connection with a nearly $3 billion bank fraud in India. A judge denied him bail while India’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party immediately turned the news into campaign fodder, claiming credit for the arrest.
Israel: President Trump said the U.S. should recognize Israel’s authority over the Golan Heights, which the country seized from Syria in 1967 and has since become one of the world’s most disputed territories. The president’s announcement, in a Twitter post, marks a significant shift in decades-long American policy. 
China: An explosion at a chemical plant in the eastern province of Jiangsu killed at least six people and injured 30 others, officials said. The plant had been flagged for over a dozen safety problems after a government inspection last year.
South Korea: Two men were arrested, accused of setting up hidden cameras in hair dryer holders, satellite boxes and electrical sockets at 30 motels across the country and streaming the “intimate private activities” of 1,600 unsuspecting guests, the latest in a wave of voyeuristic spycam crimes known as molka.
Britain: The police and counterterrorism officials are investigating attacks on four mosques in the city of Birmingham, which is home to one of the country’s biggest Muslim communities.
Asylum dispute: The British Home Office cited biblical verses about vengeance to deny asylum to an Iranian who said he had converted from Islam to Christianity because it was a “peaceful” religion.
Netherlands: Prosecutors said they planned to bring terrorism charges against a man accused of killing three people on a tram in the city of Utrecht this week, as well as multiple counts of murder or manslaughter.
Afghanistan: In the city of Mazar-i-Sharif, a power struggle between President Ashraf Ghani and a regional strongman cast a chill on the normally rollicking celebrations of Persian New Year.
Hoi An: The coastal Vietnamese city offers endless wonders, including ancient wooden merchant houses, ornate temples to a vibrant gastronomic scene.
In case you missed it: The report on the special counsel’s investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 presidential election is expected soon. Here’s what we know so far.
Amsterdam: The authorities announced a number of measures to manage tourism, including a ban on guided tours of the city’s notorious red-light district, starting next year.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Tahini isn’t just for hummus! Try it in an earthy dressing to drizzle on roasted butternut squash bread salad.
Readers recommended ways to shrink your plastic footprint: Reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.
We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.
What do lichens and politics have in common?
As you may remember from chemistry class in school, a litmus test determines a solution’s relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or more alkaline.
The phrase developed its political connotation in the 20th century. It appeared in The New York Times at least as early at 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as “the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.”
This year, “litmus test” has appeared in The Times to refer to, among other things, marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.
Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.
And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.
Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
A former Goldman Sachs banker implicated in a multibillion-dollar fraud in Malaysia will return to the United States to face the criminal charges against him, his lawyer said in an email on Thursday.
Roger Ng is accused of helping his boss at Goldman launder money and bribe officials from two countries as part of the bank’s work for a Malaysian state-owned development fund, 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB.
Mr. Ng planned to waive an extradition hearing on Friday and return to the United States, according to his lawyer, Marc Agnifilo. Mr. Agnifilo said his client intended to plead not guilty when he appeared in federal court in Brooklyn. He added that Mr. Ng did not have any agreement to cooperate with prosecutors.
Mr. Ng was arrested in Malaysia in November. The charges against him relate to an alleged scheme by the country’s former leaders to loot 1MDB, which used Goldman’s investment banking services to issue $6 billion in bonds meant to fund infrastructure projects in the country. But the former prime minister Najib Rizak and his family, along with Jho Low, a young financier in their inner circle, spent a large portion of the money on jewels, jets and artwork instead.
Mr. Najib was arrested on Malaysian charges in July. Mr. Ng and Mr. Low have been charged by federal prosecutors and the Malaysian authorities. Mr. Low remains at large, and was last believed to be in China.
Prosecutors said Mr. Ng and his boss Tim Leissner, a former Goldman partner, had taken kickbacks from the deals. Mr. Leissner was charged by federal prosecutors in secret in June and pleaded guilty in August. The criminal information against him was unsealed in November when Mr. Ng and Mr. Low were charged.
Mr. Ng’s decision to trade a Malaysian jail for an American one is hardly surprising. Malaysia’s government is now led by Mr. Najib’s political opposition and wants Goldman to pay the country $7.5 billion in damages.
Robin Rathmell, Mr. Low’s lawyer, suggested that it would be difficult to get a fair trial in Malaysia on the 1MDB charges.
“The Malaysian government has made it clear it has prejudged the guilt of everyone connected to this case, and the inhumane conditions in Malaysia’s prisons are well publicized,” he wrote in an email.
Mr. Ng left Goldman Sachs in 2014.
“As we have said all along, we are outraged that any employee of the firm would undertake the actions detailed in the government’s charges,” said Jake Siewert, a Goldman Sachs spokesman.
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — A Florida man was re-arrested within minutes after he was released from jail for burglarizing cars in the jail's parking lot.
The St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office says 37-year-old Casey Lewis bonded out of jail Thursday, only to be caught by deputies burglarizing several cars outside the jail.
Lewis was booked inside the jail on burglary charges and then released a second time that day on bond.
Treasure Coast Newspapers reports Lewis originally was brought to the jail on a grand theft charge.
Online court records showed no attorney listed for Lewis.
The University of Farmington in Farmington Hills, Mich., billed itself as a “nationally accredited business and STEM institution,” with an innovative curriculum, flexible class schedules and a diverse student body.
But it had no curriculum, no classes and no real students, the authorities said this week.
The university in the suburbs of Detroit was part of an undercover operation by the Department of Homeland Security designed to expose immigration fraud, according to federal prosecutors who announced charges in the case.
In what the authorities called a “pay to stay” scheme, foreign students knowingly enrolled in the fake school to falsely maintain their student visa status and remain in the United States, according to prosecutors.
The authorities charged eight “recruiters” in the case. They are accused of enlisting at least 600 people to enroll in the school. Prosecutors said the recruiters collected money from the fake university for bringing in students and made more than $250,000 in profit.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement had also detained people who had enrolled at the university, according to immigration lawyers working on the case. A spokesman for ICE said that about 130 people had been arrested on administrative immigration violations as part of the investigation.
“I have received calls from Georgia, Louisiana, California, North Carolina,” said Ravi Mannam, an immigration lawyer based in Atlanta. “It seems to be a nationwide ICE action as we speak.”
The students swept up in the scheme were largely from India, lawyers said.
“We are all aware that international students can be a valuable asset to our country,” Matthew Schneider, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan, said in a news release. “But as this case shows, the well-intended international student visa program can also be exploited and abused.”
ICE declined to say how many total students had enrolled in the university or how the authorities would use the tuition fees that were collected.
Undercover agents from Homeland Security Investigations had posed as the owners and employees of the University of Farmington since February 2017, the indictments said.
The university had a real website with program details, tuition pricing and contact information. The phone number for the university went to a voice mail box for the “office of admissions.”
But the university was not staffed with instructors and had no actual classes, according to the indictments.
Prosecutors said that everyone involved with the school knew that.
“Each of the foreign citizens who ‘enrolled’ and made ‘tuition’ payments to the University knew that they would not attend any actual classes, earn credits, or make academic progress toward an actual degree in a particular field of study,” the indictments said, adding that the students knew that “discretion should be used when discussing the program with others.”
But Mr. Mannam, the immigration lawyer, criticized the undercover operation as misleading and said some students had believed they were enrolling in a legitimate program.
He said some students had come from India to the United States to enroll elsewhere, only to find that their intended program had lost accreditation. So they enrolled at the University of Farmington, believing that they could apply their prior credits to the new program, which seemed to emphasize work experience, he said.
Other students had completed legitimate master’s programs in the United States but were waiting to be approved for a specialty work visa, so they enrolled in school as a “stopgap measure,” he said.
“The government utilized very questionable and troubling methods to get these foreign students to join the institution,” Mr. Mannam said.
Rahul Reddy, an immigration lawyer in Houston, said he had spoken with about 25 students who had enrolled at the University of Farmington and who were facing possible consequences. Some had already been arrested, he said, while others had rushed to leave the country.
He warned that international students should guard against universities that do not hold regular classes or that offer a work permit immediately. “That’s a red flag,” he said.
The scene in Michigan was reminiscent of a similar operation in New Jersey two years ago, when federal prosecutors and ICE announced that the University of Northern New Jersey, with its official website and seal featuring the Latin words “Humanus, Scientia, Integritas,” was a fake set up by the government.
In that case, the authorities arrested about 20 brokers who they said had recruited foreign students to the university. Twenty-five students were listed as anonymous co-conspirators. Within days, more than 1,000 of them were ordered to appear in immigration court, facing deportation or even a lifetime ban from the United States.
Most of the students in that case were from China and India. Officials said that the students were “100 percent fully aware” that they had enrolled in a fake school. But some insisted that they were collateral damage, duped by both the brokers and the government.
By Thursday, the website for the University of Farmington, which had once appeared to show photos of students, had been taken down.
It was replaced with a page showing the university’s logo next to a law enforcement badge and a warning: “The University of Farmington,” it said, “has been closed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
Paul Manafort is sentenced, Europe’s central bank signals concern, and Russian bills take aim at online expression. Here’s the latest: 
Paul Manafort, a political consultant who became chairman of the Trump campaign and then a main target of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, for his murky dealings with Ukrainian and pro-Russian interests, was sentenced to 47 months in prison for financial fraud.
“To say I feel humiliated and ashamed would be a gross understatement,” Mr. Manafort, in a wheelchair, said during his sentencing hearing, asking the judge for leniency. Set to turn 70 next month, Mr. Manafort has watched the curtains fall on a grand lifestyle funded by illegal lobbying for Ukrainian political figures.
Prosecutors had told the judge Mr. Manafort was a hardened criminal who had lied to them even after pleading guilty and offering full cooperation. But the judge declined to follow advisory sentencing guidelines that would have effectively put Mr. Manafort in prison for the rest of his life. 
Looking ahead: Mr. Manafort will be sentenced next week in another case, in Washington. He faces a possible sentence of 10 years. 
Signaling a rising threat of recession, the European Central Bank brought back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending that it had switched off just months earlier, having devised it during the financial crisis. The bank also said there would be no change to benchmark interest rates until 2020.
The volte-face is a response to global weakness. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the U.S., has reverberated around the world, diminishing growth in Europe and elsewhere.
European weakness: The industrial powerhouse Germany barely escaped recession in the latest quarter, hurt by American tariffs on its steel and falling Chinese appetite for its machine tools and Volkswagens. The uncertainty over Britain’s exit from the E.U. has strained the British economy, while Italy and Spain have been shaken by political fissures.
Forecasts: The bank’s economists now expect eurozone growth to be 1.1 percent this year, and there are fears that the global slowdown could ultimately affect the U.S. and become entrenched. 
The Russian economy is in prolonged stagnation. President Vladimir Putin’s approval ratings have tumbled. And on Thursday, Russian lawmakers approved draconian bills that critics fear would essentially outlaw dissent on the internet. 
The bills would create Soviet-style censorship, imposing jail terms or fines for online expression deemed to be insulting to the government, or for spreading so-called fake news. 
Details: One set of bills would hit private individuals with fines of up to $3,000 or 15 days of administrative arrest for insulting the government online. Another bill would demand that news media outlets and other websites remove any information that shows “clear disrespect” to Russian society or the government. Internet service providers and website owners would have one day to remove the insults, or face a complete block.
Prospects: The measures await final passage in the upper chamber of Parliament and Mr. Putin’s signature. He has expressed support for such restrictions.
The war-torn northeastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo is suffering through the second-longest Ebola outbreak on record. Over seven months, there have been 907 recorded cases and 569 deaths. And despite the use of promising antiviral drugs and a recent vaccine, there is no end in sight. 
What’s worse, heavy-handed measures by outside aid organizations, the local police and the military have alienated communities, leading some people to spurn treatment and even attack treatment centers. On Thursday, Dr. Joanne Liu, the international president of Doctors Without Borders, said that her own organization was among those that had fallen short. She called on medical teams to treat patients “as humans and not as a biothreat.” 
On the ground: More than 80,000 people have been vaccinated, but the region where the outbreak occurred is a longtime conflict zone, with up to 100 armed groups as well as security forces posing a constant threat of violence. “In the last month alone, there were more than 30 different incidents and attacks against elements of the response” to Ebola, Dr. Liu said. 
Quote: Referring to affected communities, Dr. Liu said, “They hear constant advice to wash their hands, but nothing about the lack of soap and water. They see their relatives sprayed with chlorine and wrapped in plastic bags, buried without ceremony. Then they see their possessions burned.”
Joe Biden: The former vice president seems to be 95 percent committed to joining the Democratic field for president in 2020.
Britain: The work and pensions secretary, Amber Rudd, apologized after describing a Labour Party member of Parliament as a “colored woman.” And the British cabinet minister for Northern Ireland likewise apologized after asserting that killings by soldiers and the police during the decades-long conflict there “were not crimes.”
Afghanistan: Peace negotiations between the U.S. and the Taliban — which began in Qatar 11 days ago with high hopes — are getting caught up in a disagreement over fundamental questions of terrorism: What is it, and who is a terrorist?
Denmark: Two teenagers and an elderly person are among 14 people charged with unlawfully sharing a graphic video online of the beheading of a young woman in Morocco late last year by men who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State.
Belgium: A French citizen suspected of working for the Islamic State in Syria was convicted of murdering four people at a Jewish museum in Brussels in 2014. He faces up to 30 years in prison at a sentencing hearing set for Monday.
Justin Trudeau: Canada’s prime minister said that a dispute with his former justice minister, which grew into a political crisis that is blemishing Mr. Trudeau’s reputation, was the result of an “erosion of trust.” He denied any wrongdoing.
Music: Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Lady Gaga. In The Times Magazine this week, our critics weigh in on the top 25 songs and artists that define and shape this particularly grueling and frantic era.
Tips for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Ease into the weekend with a comforting dinner of loaded sweet potatoes with beans and Cheddar.
Going plastic-free is daunting — if close to impossible — but our climate reporter is giving it a shot this week.
Here’s what you can do to make working from home with children less of a challenge.
Today is International Women’s Day, a day of celebration and solidarity.
Many scholars trace its origins to 1909, when the Socialist Party of America declared a Woman’s Day. The idea spread internationally.
In 1915, Clara Zetkin, a German Marxist who had promulgated the day, used it to protest World War I. In Russia in 1917, revolutionary women used the day to demand bread and peace.
In many countries, the celebration these days is less political and more commercial, a holiday marked by candy and flowers.
In your Back Story writer’s youth in a Bosnian household in St. Louis, it was a day when the women celebrated one another and all that they had overcome. Gifts from husbands and children played a part, but the focus was on women’s bonds to one another.
It raises the question: Who gets to shape a holiday? As Temma Kaplan, a history professor at Rutgers University, put it, “Commemorations and holidays are like clay — you can define what they will mean.”
Melina Delkic wrote today’s Back Story.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.
Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)
Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
His name was John Meehan, but most people know him as “Dirty John.” A college classmate had given him the nickname, and it stuck.
Mr. Meehan was a good-looking charmer who did nothing exceptional with his life but lie, cheat, steal, manipulate and attempt murder. Still, his story, and that of Debra Newell, one of many women he duped, has become one of the most popular of the last two years. There’s a podcast about him that has had more than 42 million downloads; a TV series on Bravo (whose finale captivated more than 3.3 million) and a documentary on Oxygen, “Dirty John, the Dirty Truth,” watched by 1.6 million.
“Dirty John” is part of a long list of cultural material in recent years about people who aren’t who they purport to be. What do we watch these days? “Big Little Lies,” “The Americans,” “The Affair.” Whom do we talk about? Walter White, Don Draper and Tony Soprano. Not one but two series about the fake heiress Anna Delvey are in currently in development. We seem to have an insatiable appetite for people with hidden worlds, their closets bursting with skeletons.
The online magazine Narratively has an entire vertical dedicated to Secret Lives. These stories are among the most widely read, said Noah Rosenberg, the site’s co-founder; many have been optioned for television and film. Pretend Radio, a podcast about con artists, has had nearly half a million downloads since its debut in June 2017.
“You can argue that con-artist crimes affect more people than murder,” said Javier Leiva, the creator and host. 
I know this firsthand. Like John Meehan, my former fiancé was a pathological liar who fabricated heroic exploits; he eventually went to jail for writing fraudulent narcotics prescriptions using, among other names, my own. I learned this when I received a phone call from the Naval Criminal Investigative Service a year and a half after I left him. From a journalistic perspective, it was fascinating. As a person trying to have a relationship, it was excruciating.
But I can take some comfort in having been part of the zeitgeist.
Deception is everywhere, including the nightly news, and, of course, our political discourse. Even our comedies are rooted in the stuff. The protagonist of “Younger,” played by Sutton Foster, is a 40-something woman posing as a fresh-faced literary assistant in her 20s. “Grace and Frankie” is about two women whose husbands cheated on them — with each other! — for two decades.
The word of 2018, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, was “toxic,” with “gaslight” among the runners-up.
To some extent, of course, we all lead double or triple lives, presenting different selves at work, at home, in love, with friends, on social media. As Chris Rock once said, “When you meet somebody for the first time, you’re not meeting them. You’re meeting their representative.”
But most of us are not like Mr. Meehan, my former swain or the serial fabulist Frank Abagnale, Jr., whose life story spawned a cottage industry of deception: a book, “Catch Me If You Can,” a movie of the same name, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, and a Tony-nominated Broadway show. Nor are we Dan Mallory, a.k.a AJ Finn, the best-selling novelist who was the subject of a recent New Yorker profile. Mr. Mallory had claimed that he had cancer, which had also killed his mother, and that his brother had committed suicide. He also said he had a Ph.D. from Oxford. None of it was true.
People who break the social contract in such a protracted and consistent manner inspire both admiration (for the chutzpah it takes to dissemble consistently) and fear.
“These stories make us ask, ‘What if nothing is as it seems?’” said Kevin Balfe, a partner at Red Seat Ventures, which produces CrimeCon, a three-day true crime convention held annually in New Orleans. “What makes someone willing and capable to do that? And what it would mean if more of us had that same capability? Society is built largely on human trust, and when that’s shattered we all suffer.”
In December 2016, Bravo conducted a survey with Research Now of 1,500 people ages 18 to 54, called “Truth and Deception in Relationships.” More than four in 10 wondered if their partner could have another side to them; more than one in three often suspected that their partner was being dishonest about something. Fifty-one percent said they’d kept a secret from their partners, male or female. And 41 percent of online daters had been lured into a relationship by means of a fake online persona, or “catfished,” said Dave Kaplan, the head of strategic insights and research for lifestyle networks at NBCUniversal, which owns Bravo.
It’s not that people were so exemplary in years past — think of ye olde hucksters, snake-oil salesmen and “The Wizard of Oz” — but there weren’t as many avenues for letting our dark sides run wild. And though digital footprints and identity-verification programs like Spokeo might make it easier to track down deceitful people, the internet presents more opportunities to transgress and, upon being caught, to create a new virtual identity.
CareerExcuse.com provides fake reference letters from fake bosses for fake jobs you’ve never had. For as little as $69 a month, Paladin Deception Services will offer character and personal references, landlord referrals, and “verification of specific skills.” Ninety-nine dollars gets you verification of a white lie or “exaggeration,” along with voice mail, a dedicated phone line in the city of your choosing, and a male or female operator — whichever suits your fancy.
For romantic deceivers, along with Ashley Madison, there’s broapp.net, a virtual wingman that sends automated sweet nothings to your lover, so you can spend more time with your mates while remaining in good standing with your beloved.
It’s no surprise that lie detection has become trendy, and not just in response to the Trump administration and its proclivity for what the president himself called “truthful hyperbole.” Ever since Richard Nixon shattered America’s innocence, trust has slowly been eroding in institutions and among the people who inhabit them.
Citizens might be entertained by impostors, but they are also seeking to defend themselves psychologically against them. Jeff Hancock’s TED Talk, “The Future of Lying,” has amassed over 1.2 million views. Pamela Meyer’s “How to Spot a Liar” received over 21 million.
At last year’s CrimeCon, a session called “How to Catch a Liar,” run by an ex-detective, drew almost a thousand people in a standing-room-only ballroom, significantly larger than the organizers had anticipated.
“In retrospect, it shouldn’t have been that surprising,” said Mr. Balfe. “Even institutions that have been bastions of trust in society — the Catholic Church, the Supreme Court, the F.B.I., the military — have either been caught up in scandals, politicized, or otherwise made to seem less than they once were. The result is a natural tendency by many to want to figure out what is real and separate fact from fraud.”
And, one hopes, not end up like Debra Newell. Or me.
This article is adapted from the author’s book, “Duped: Double Lives, False Identities and the Con Man I Almost Married,” which was published by Public Affairs last month.
DALLAS — Federal authorities apprehended near Dallas a car salesman accused of kidnapping a paralyzed man in Tennessee and forcing him to hand over nearly $200,000 or risk his life and the lives of his family, police said Wednesday.
The federal task force took 42-year-old Daniel Clayton Bryant into custody Sunday at a hotel in Cedar Hill, southwest of Dallas, Cedar Hill police Lt. Colin Chenault said. Bryant is charged with kidnapping, bank robbery and extortion.
He was being held Wednesday at a federal prison outside Dallas. Authorities have not said when he will be returned to Tennessee.
The victim, who has one leg and is paralyzed down one side, told police that Bryant offered to drive him home April 1 after he left his pickup for service at a dealership in Chattanooga, Tennessee, according to a federal criminal complaint.
The man said he had received a financial settlement after he suffered severe injuries at work, documents show. He said Bryant forced him to withdraw thousands in cashier's checks and cash over a two-day period from two Bank of America locations, and that Bryant threatened to kill him and his family if he didn't comply.
Bryant then deposited $199,000 into his own bank accounts, the complaint said.
Bryant also allegedly drove the man to a hotel near Atlanta, took the man's credit cards and forced him to smoke crack cocaine, the complaint said.
No attorney has been identified to speak on Bryant's behalf.
NORWICH, Conn. — The two slaves, a father and daughter, were stripped to the waist and positioned for frontal and side views. Then, like subjects in contemporary mug shots, their pictures were taken, as part of a racist study arguing that black people were an inferior race.
Almost 170 years later, they are at the center of a dispute over who should own the fruits of American slavery.
The images of the father and daughter, identified by their first names, Renty and Delia, were commissioned by a professor at Harvard and are now stored in a museum on campus as precious cultural artifacts.
But to the Lanier family, they are records of a personal family history. “These were our bedtime stories,” Shonrael Lanier said.
On Wednesday, Ms. Lanier’s mother, Tamara, 54, filed a lawsuit in Massachusetts saying that she is a direct descendant of Renty and Delia, and that the valuable photographs are rightfully hers. The case renews focus on the role that the country’s oldest universities played in slavery, and comes amid a growing debate over whether the descendants of enslaved people are entitled to reparations — and what those reparations might look like.
“It is unprecedented in terms of legal theory and reclaiming property that was wrongfully taken,” Benjamin Crump, one of Ms. Lanier’s lawyers, said. “Renty’s descendants may be the first descendants of slave ancestors to be able to get their property rights.”
Jonathan Swain, a spokesman for Harvard, declined to comment on the lawsuit.
[For more coverage of race, sign up here to have our Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.]
Universities in recent years have acknowledged and expressed contrition for their ties to slavery. Harvard Law School abandoned an 80-year-old shield based on the crest of a slaveholding family that helped endow the institution. Georgetown University decided to give an advantage in admissions to descendants of enslaved people who were sold to fund the school.
A series of federal laws has also compelled museums to repatriate human remains and sacred objects to Native American tribes.
The lawsuit says the images are the “spoils of theft,” because as slaves Renty and Delia were unable to give consent. It says that the university is illegally profiting from the images by using them for “advertising and commercial purposes,” such as by using Renty’s image on the cover of a $40 anthropology book. And it argues that by holding on to the images, Harvard has perpetuated the hallmarks of slavery that prevented African-Americans from holding, conveying or inheriting personal property.
“I keep thinking, tongue in cheek a little bit, this has been 169 years a slave, and Harvard still won’t free Papa Renty,” said Mr. Crump, who in 2012 represented the family of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager killed by a community watch member in Florida. Ms. Lanier is also represented by Josh Koskoff, a lawyer who represents families of the Sandy Hook elementary school massacre victims.
Renty and Delia were among seven slaves who appeared in 15 images made using the daguerreotype process, an early form of photography imprinted on silvered copper plates.
The pictures are haunting and voyeuristic, with the subjects staring at the camera with detached expressions.
The daguerreotypes were commissioned by Louis Agassiz, a Swiss-born zoologist and Harvard professor who is sometimes called the father of American natural science. They were taken in 1850 by J.T. Zealy, in a studio in Columbia, S.C.
Agassiz, a rival of Charles Darwin, subscribed to polygenesis, the theory that black and white people descended from different origins. The theory, later discredited, was used to promote the racist idea that black people were inferior to whites. Agassiz viewed the slaves as anatomical specimens to document his beliefs, according to historical sources.
The daguerreotypes were forgotten until they were discovered in an unused storage cabinet in the attic of Harvard’s Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology in 1976. They were thought to be the earliest known photographs of American slaves.
Notes found with the images give small clues as to the identity of the slaves — their names, plantations and tribes. Renty was born in Congo, according to the label on his daguerreotype.
In 2017, Ms. Lanier and her daughter attended a conference at Harvard on the links between academia and slavery that included speakers such as Drew Faust, Harvard’s president at the time, and the writer Ta-Nehisi Coates. They said they were offended to see the speakers positioned under a huge projection of Renty’s face.
Mr. Coates, the author of a widely discussed article making the case for reparations, said in an interview that while he deeply respected the scholars at the conference, he sympathized with Ms. Lanier’s cause.
“That photograph is like a hostage photograph,” Mr. Coates said of Renty’s image. “This is an enslaved black man with no choice being forced to participate in white supremacist propaganda — that’s what that photograph was taken for.”
He said he understood how Ms. Lanier felt seeing it at the conference. “I get why it would bother her,” he said. “I wasn’t aware of all that at the time.”
Interviewed at her home in Norwich, Ms. Lanier, a retired chief probation officer for the State of Connecticut, said she had not heard of the photos until about 2010, when she began tracing her genealogy for a family project.
Her mother, Mattye Pearl Thompson-Lanier, who died that year, had passed down a strong oral tradition of their family’s lineage from an African ancestor called “Papa Renty.” Shonrael, Ms. Lanier’s daughter, wrote a fifth-grade project about her ancestor in 1996.
The lawsuit could hinge on evidence of that chain of ancestry. Ms. Lanier’s amateur sleuthing led to death records, census records and a handwritten inventory from 1834 of the slaves on the plantation of Col. Thomas Taylor in Columbia and their dollar values.
The slave inventory lists a Big Renty and a Renty, and listed under the latter is Delia. Ms. Lanier believes that Big Renty is her “Papa Renty” and the father of Renty and Delia, and has traced them to her mother, who was born to sharecroppers in Montgomery, Ala.
Her genealogical research has its skeptics. Gregg Hecimovich, who is contributing to a book about the slave daguerreotypes, to be published by the Peabody next year, said it was important to note that the slave inventory has the heading “To Wit, in Families.” Big Renty and Renty are at the top of separate groupings, he said, implying that they are the heads of separate families.
“I’d be very excited to work with Tamara,” said Dr. Hecimovich, who is chairman of the English department at Furman University. “But the bigger issue is it would be very hard to make a slam-dunk case that she believes she has.”
Molly Rogers, the author of a previous book about the images called “Delia’s Tears,” said that tracing families under slavery was extremely complex. “It’s not necessarily by blood,” she said. “It could be people who take responsibility for each other. Terms, names, family relationships are very much complicated by the fact of slavery.”
One intellectual property lawyer, Rick Kurnit, said he thought Ms. Lanier would have a hard time claiming ownership of the daguerreotypes. He said the famous photograph “V-J Day in Times Square,” for instance, belonged to the photographer and not to the sailor or the nurse who are kissing. But that image, of course, was taken in a public space.
Yxta Maya Murray, a professor at Loyola Law School, Los Angeles, said that images taken by force were tantamount to robbery. “If she’s a descendant, then I would stand for her,” Professor Murray said of Ms. Lanier.
One argument for keeping the daguerreotypes in a museum is that they are fragile physical objects, which degrade when exposed to light, said Robin Bernstein, a professor of cultural history at Harvard who has studied them.
She declined to take a position in the legal dispute, but said that the images were safe at the Peabody. “Frankly, there are other repositories to keep them safe,” she said. “What I do know is that no ordinary individual such as myself could keep them safe in a home.”
The question remains what Ms. Lanier would do with the images of Renty and Delia if she were to win her case in court.
Ms. Lanier, who is asking for a jury trial and unspecified punitive and emotional damages, says she does not know, and would have to have a family meeting about it. She does not rule out licensing the images.
Mr. Crump, her lawyer, had another idea. The daguerreotypes, he said, should be taken on a tour of America, so that everyone can see them.
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
When a New York City public housing employee overhauled her kitchen with stolen equipment, she even took the cabinets — but didn’t stop there.
She stole the kitchen sink, too.
This is according to charges filed in Queens Criminal Court, which say that Eva Torres, who worked for the New York City Housing Authority, stole eight kitchen cabinets, a white refrigerator and a sink from a public housing complex in East Harlem.
The property taken from the housing authority, also known as Nycha, was worth over a thousand dollars, officials said.
“This Nycha supervisor misused her position to give her personal kitchen a makeover, realizing the renovation with stolen equipment and an appliance from Nycha and denying residents what was rightfully theirs, according to the charges,” the commissioner of the city’s Department of Investigation, Margaret Garnett, said in a statement.
Ms. Torres, 42, of Queens, was arrested Thursday and charged with criminal possession of stolen property, which is a felony, and possession of stolen property, a misdemeanor. She could face up to four years in prison on the first charge and up to one year on the second.
The housing authority called Ms. Torres’s actions “reprehensible” in a statement on Thursday and said it would respond to them with “swift and aggressive action.”
On Friday, Ms. Torres resigned from her position at Nycha.
The charges against Ms. Torres mark the second time this week that housing authority employees have been thrust into the spotlight by the Department of Investigation.
On Tuesday, the department released the results of a monthslong investigation sparked by claims that Nycha workers were throwing alcohol-fueled sex parties on the job. The investigation found no signs of the sex parties, but it did find that managers at a housing project in the Bronx routinely drank and held parties on the job, had sexual relationships with their subordinates, and threatened many of them.
[Read more about the investigation that found “a culture of misconduct” at a Nycha complex.]
The housing agency has also come under fire recently for years of mismanagement, its decrepit housing stock, poor living conditions and an overall sense that it is in crisis. By the end of last year, the federal government was considering taking control of the buildings Nycha manages.
Ms. Torres’s actions, as described by the criminal complaint filed against her, were smaller in scale and far less lurid.
Ms. Torres, who oversaw the caretakers responsible for services including garbage, landscaping and snow removal at the Robert F. Wagner Houses in East Harlem, first came to investigators’ attention in September. A tip accused her of using Nycha equipment to renovate the kitchen in her Queens apartment, the Department of Investigation said.
While looking into the claim, court documents said, investigators found a photo Ms. Torres posted on Facebook that showed her standing in front of kitchen cabinets that looked similar to the ones used in Nycha apartments.
The cabinets were crucial. Nycha orders its supply from a Canadian company that told investigators it had never sold them privately to anybody, including Ms. Torres, the court documents said.
When law enforcement officials went to her apartment, they discovered that seven of the cabinets had white labels with the address of the Wagner Houses on them, according to the criminal complaint.
The kitchen sink was also labeled with the address of a public housing apartment, and officials were able to match the serial numbers of the cabinets, sink and refrigerator to ones ordered by Nycha.
“While greed may not be a crime, funneling goods and products meant for the truly needy is,” Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown said in a statement.
KABUL, Afghanistan — Afghanistan’s coalition government fired on Tuesday all the commissioners who directed fraud-tainted parliamentary elections last fall, as the country prepares for a presidential race this summer and watches, with its leaders on the sidelines, peace talks unfold between Americans and the Taliban.
The move follows a push by some opposition politicians to postpone the election and form an interim government that, as part of a peace deal, could include the Taliban. President Ashraf Ghani, who has fumed over the government’s exclusion from the American-Taliban talks, has insisted that the election be held on time.
The firings, which came after a series of meetings between the government, civil society groups and political parties, were portrayed as a badly needed consensus on electoral reform. The commissioners called their dismissal a political decision by officials who hope to serve in a new government.
The election had already been pushed back from April to July. The panel behind that decision, the Independent Election Commission, was one of two whose members were removed on Tuesday.
Replacement commissioners named by Mr. Ghani and his coalition partner, Abdullah Abdullah, will be charged with preparing for a presidential election that will feature both men as candidates.
Mr. Ghani has said that only a central government with a strong mandate can negotiate on behalf of the country. The Taliban, dealing directly with the Americans, have refused to include an Afghan government they consider illegitimate.
Zalmay Khalilizad, the leader of the American delegation, said last week that he hoped to secure a peace deal before the July election. He said last month that the United States and the Taliban had agreed in principle to the framework of a peace deal.
The Afghan election commission was widely accused of sowing confusion and disarray during and after the October parliamentary elections, which were three years late and tainted by accusations of vote-rigging, bribery and incompetence. Winners have been certified for only about a third of the 250 seats in Parliament.
The attorney general’s office has prosecuted 313 people accused of violations including forging or selling election stickers and national ID cards needed to cast a vote.
In a statement late Tuesday, the office said that the 12 commissioners from the two election bodies were barred from leaving the country, and that investigators had been appointed to look into charges of abuse of authority.
The firings have set up a legal confrontation, with all of the dismissed members saying the move violated election law.
“The amendment of the election law by a presidential decree of a president who is also a candidate is against the Constitution,” the commissioners said in a joint statement. “This is a political decision, not a legal or constitutional one.”
Mr. Ghani’s deputy spokesman, Shahhusain Murtazawi, said the election results remain in place for now. He said protests could be lodged with the second affected commission, called the Independent Election Complaint Commission, or with judicial groups. The head of the commission’s secretariat remains in place as acting director.
Given that the officials who administered the election have now been fired, some of the roughly 2,000 losing candidates are expected to protest. If the results are re-examined or canceled, it would affect preparations for a presidential election already behind schedule — with no assurance that the required funding is in place.
One losing parliamentary candidate, Fawad Aman, said anyone seated in Parliament would remain under a cloud of suspicion. And if the commissioners were not punished, he said, Afghans could lose faith in the electoral process and refrain from voting.
“If they are just dismissed and not prosecuted, it means this is a political game so that the president can have more influence in election commissions and the presidential election,” Mr. Aman said.
Nayim Ayubzada, head of the Transparent Election Foundation for Afghanistan, an independent election monitoring group, said that the firings were made too hastily and that the government had paid too little attention to the legal process for addressing fraud accusations.
“We worry about this decision because the president is a candidate himself and he may do all these things to turn things in his favor,” Mr. Ayubzada said. “If he decides so hastily about election issues, it will raise questions about the transparency of elections.”
Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah will appoint new heads and members of the commissions, selected from candidates put forward by civil society groups and political parties within the next week.
Supporters of the firings said they were necessary to make commissioners accountable for bungling an expensive election process that was secured by Afghan forces amid a raging war. Each Afghan election, bankrolled by international donations, has proved at least as problematic as the last.
The 2014 presidential election was so fraudulent that, when the two leading candidates claimed victory, it nearly tore the country apart and prompted Western officials to step in as mediators. John Kerry, then the secretary of state, negotiated a power-sharing government between the top two candidates, Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah, with a promise that they would prioritize election reforms to avoid another fiasco.
The two men were slow to make progress on reforms, given infighting in the government and the war with the Taliban. Now Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah get to name new commissioners to oversee an election during the peak of the summer fighting season and as the peace process plays out.
Those challenges have left many Afghans skeptical of what new commissioners can do. Mr. Ayubzada, the election observer, said he doubted the presidential election would even be held this year, because the process was “so overshadowed by ongoing peace talks and political dealing.”
The theft of precious ornaments from the Castellani jewelry collection at the National Etruscan Museum of Villa Giulia in Rome, on the eve of Easter in 2013, was the stuff of the edgiest heist movie.
At about 11:15 p.m., three hooded men sneaked in through the museum’s garden, while another acted as a lookout. They sealed various doors — including the room from which the custodians kept watch — with chains and threw tear gas canisters throughout the gallery’s halls, “to create panic,” recalled Ezio Belloni, one of the custodians on duty that night.
Mr. Belloni was in a much finer mood on Tuesday, when Italian officials held a news conference to announce the conclusion of what Italy’s carabinieri art theft squad called “Operation Villa Giulia,” which led to the recovery of the stolen artifacts, as well as the identification of the thieves, who are now standing trial in Rome.
“In the end it turned out well,” Mr. Belloni said in an interview at the museum, while carabinieri and museum officials posed for photos in front of a vitrine with the recovered artifacts.
“This is one of those cases where if I detailed six years of investigation, no one would get bored,” Tiziana Cugini, the Rome prosecutor who pursued the case, said.
“It’s complicated, full of twists and turns,” she said.
That night, the thieves headed for the room that housed the Castellani collection, a priceless — and unique — array of antique jewelry dating from the seventh century B.C. through ancient Etruscan, Greek and Roman ornaments that the Castellani family of Roman jewelers collected, copied and reworked in the 19th century. The collection, which was donated to the museum 100 years ago, showcases both the ancient and the 19th-century works.
What the thieves had not counted on was that the custodians would be quick to alert the police after alarms went off. So it was not long after the break-in that the sound of approaching police sirens forced them to make a hasty getaway.
Mr. Belloni recalled making the rounds of the museum that night to examine the damage, and finding two vitrines in the Castellani room smashed to pieces, their content gone. The thieves had made off with about two dozen pieces from the 19th century collection.
“Honestly, it was terrible to see that destruction,” Mr. Belloni said.
Convinced that the theft had been commissioned, investigators set their sights at one point on a Russian woman who had expressed a keen interest in the collection. She had told antiquarians that she was “willing to pay any price for the collection,” said Massimo Maresca, the former commander in charge of archaeological thefts for the carabinieri art squad.
The Russian woman was stopped at Rome’s Fiumicino Airport en route to Russia after the theft, and the police found photographs of the collection on her cellphone, as well as of the security cameras in the room that housed the exhibit and of the museum’s exits. The police did not have enough evidence to arrest the woman and she was eventually allowed to leave for Russia.
Investigators eventually concluded that the perpetrators were not specialized art thieves, he said, “but common thieves who dealt in robberies and drug deals.”
The thieves, recognizing that the artifacts were hot, divided them up and tried to sell them on the black market. “Those attempts were unsuccessful,” Ms. Cugini, the prosecutor, said. The police were able to recover all of the stolen objects a little at a time over the course of five years.
Investigators still suspect that the thieves were working on behalf of someone who wanted the jewelry, but they do not know who was behind the theft.
The stolen jewels were restored before being returned to the collection. “Some have slight scars from the theft, a missing pearl here or there, but we’re fine with that,” said Maria Paola Guidobaldi, a conservator at the museum.
She said she thinks the 19th-century jewels were the real object of the theft.
“The ancient jewels were collectors items, but the more modern ones could be worn, even if they are flashy,” Ms. Guidobaldi said. “But maybe they would have taken them all had they not been interrupted.”
Valentino Nizzo, the director of Villa Giulia, said that the museum had improved its security systems after the theft, “to ensure that this never happens again.” Even so, he added, Italy’s culture officials face a daunting task on a daily basis — “protecting an immense patrimony, even though we are often understaffed, is not easy,” he said.
HARK By Sam Lipsyte 284 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27.
We begin with a schmuck. His name is Fraz Penzig — Fraz being how his father, Frank, once heard himself paged over a static-filled airport loudspeaker. “Penzig men,” writes Sam Lipsyte. “Always hovering just outside of an inside joke they have played on themselves.” It’s hard to diminish a character faster than naming him for a mistake, but we soon learn that Fraz is abrasive and useless at his job. He has a porn fetish that’s common knowledge in his grossed-out social circle. His 8-year-old twins may have rectal parasites. His wife, Tovah, enjoys French-kissing one of Fraz’s childhood rivals. “Tovah told him that life is not a zero-sum game, but Fraz senses that if it were, he would be the zero sum.”
Hark Morner is also named for a mistake, this one involving a foreign-born mother and a Christmas carol. “She thought the song was about someone telling their friend Hark that the herald angels were singing,” Hark tells Fraz. But where Fraz has been sinking since birth, Hark is rising — as in “glory to the newborn king” rising — through mental archery, a quasi-religious mindfulness regimen of his own creation. He’s still in the pamphlet-selling phase when he meets Fraz, and he’s not the chattiest messiah. But when Hark speaks, “his voice is an enchanted river with roars and hushes and thick, crystal swerves. It carves a course for Fraz to follow, to flow toward, out from his fetid backwaters, his brack stink.”
[ The paper’s 2010 review of “The Ask” called it “the sort of book that, if it were an animal, would be a lumbering, hairy, cryptozoological ape-man with a near-crippling case of elephantiasis.” ]
The attraction and repulsion between would-be Jesus and his apostle Costanza is a major story line in “Hark,” though it’s hardly the only one. “Hark” is Lipsyte’s first novel since 2010’s much-loved “The Ask,” and similarities abound. Both are satires featuring underemployed, middle-aged New York Jewish protagonists with abandoned artistic dreams, cheating wives and snack-food obsessions. That’s a pretty specific box on the census form for a writer to check twice. Both also veer away from narrative to chase any excuse for a riff — then swing back with prose so good you feel guilty complaining about the whiplash. The difference is that in “Hark” the riffing has more serious consequences.
“Hark” is split into halves, the first of which is extremely funny. In a few swift pages we learn that Hark started as a stooge on the corporate speaker’s circuit, hired to bore audiences with meaningless aphorisms (“You are the arrow! But you are also what it pierces”) until an executive ringer would eject him from the stage to heroic applause. “Hark wasn’t the only person who worked this niche. A guy named Cornelius the Corporate Impostor had the gig before Hark. Big Lev from Biz Dev had sewn up Silicon Valley. But they were too broad. Nobody bought their acts after a line or two. Hark twitched with the plausible.”
 [Read: Sam Lipsyte on the role of sex scenes in fiction.]
In the midst of these gigs, Hark has his revelation. It’s a recurring joke that no one can explain mental archery beyond its “focus on focus,” but pamphlets are written, yoga poses created (“Priapic Centaur, Roaring Rama, Encircling Sioux”), and a core of acolytes gather. There’s the heiress Kate Rumpler and Teal, Kate’s anticapitalist, ex-convict ex-girlfriend. (Kate: “You did do time for embezzlement.” Teal: “That company was building fascism in America. And its shipping policies were absurd.”) Kate funds Hark with her inheritance. Teal runs Hark Hub, home of the latest Hark videos and social threads. Fraz fancies himself the movement’s Steve Bannon, while the others regard him as its Michael Cohen. All are mired in ironic detachment from their misery and attracted to Hark’s simple message. But they’re unsure if his odd speech and mannerisms are signs of sanctity or just weirdness. “Maybe Fraz is too impure to know the difference.”
Having dropped Hark at the edge of a Tony Robbins-like breakthrough in Part 1, the story unravels some in Part 2 — for Hark and for “Hark.” Lipsyte crowds the plot with a stalker/Svengali, an organ-donation kidnapping thingumajig, and an Elon Musk-y villain, complete with surgically dyed irises, who exists mostly as a reason for Lipsyte to groove on big tech. He also shoves his skeptical Greek chorus aggressively toward belief, leading to lines like this from Fraz to Kate: “There’s something a little too uncomplicated in Hark for people like us. Thing is, we’ve got to change, not him.”
That’s a honker of a passage, though it serves Lipsyte’s point — that modern life is so grim, people will bend far below the limbo bar of logic in search of some peace. Even the author can’t make up his mind about Hark and mental archery. “Fraz does believe,” he writes, only to double back a few sentences later and suggest that he doesn’t.
But the battle between Hark and Fraz is never a fair fight. Regardless of the deficiencies Lipsyte piles onto them, Fraz, Kate, Teal and others are fully formed characters. We know Fraz’s inner life, see moments of tenderness with his kids, and even get the occasional glimpse of his appeal. Calling back to Fraz’s courtship with Tovah, Lipsyte writes: “He told her to consider him a downed wire: unpredictable, potentially lethal. Tovah thought him more a lost shoelace, but adorable.”
Hark, meanwhile, is a great idea and a lousy character. He’s only ever alive as a vessel for riffs about belief, fraud, transcendence, corporate off-sites, etc. Many of these are dazzling, but hardly all of them, and Hark is in the book a lot. There’s considerable time given to his speeches: “What we learn from the example of the Mongols.…” Meta, sure. But meta-boring is still boring. In an attempt to give Hark a bit more flesh some information gets sprinkled in — he’s a cop’s kid, his favorite drink is ice — but it’s a tough sell that smart, damaged, witty, miserable people would lend Hark their attention for longer than it would take to ridicule him. Let alone devote their tiny reservoirs of hope to something as inchoate as mental archery.
Lipsyte tries to give his characters cleaner moments of salvation before wrapping things up, but this being a Christ allegory tucked inside a satire, it’s safe to say it doesn’t end terribly well for anyone. It’s a shame. Not only because so much of “Hark” is brilliantly alive, but because everyone in it could use a bit of mercy.
MUNICH — Vice President Mike Pence made his case for “America First” in the deeply hostile territory of an annual conference of America’s closest European allies on Saturday. He was not deterred from repeating his demands that Europe withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement, ban Chinese gear from global communications networks and accelerate its increases in contributions to NATO.
Mr. Pence received a predictably tepid response, mainly from a crowd of visiting Americans. They included a number of Republican members of Congress who came here to Munich, along with the Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, at a fraught moment in the trans-Atlantic relationship.
Hours later, Mr. Pence’s predecessor, Joseph R. Biden, received a brief standing ovation after delivering an impassioned rebuttal to the Trump administration’s treatment of allies, in what appeared to be the foreign policy plank of a campaign for president — if he decides to run.
“I promise you, I promise you,’’ Mr. Biden said. “This too shall pass. We will be back. We will be back.” He never defined “we.”
Taken together, the two men defined the dramatic change in American foreign policy that has left the traditional allies who gather at the Munich Security Conference in despair, and has led the Trump administration to embrace newer, far more authoritarian allies in Central Europe. Mr. Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spent the week visiting several of them, in a European tour that bore little resemblance to similar trips taken by administrations past.
“The contrast is between a new foreign policy that focuses on America first and expects others to do as we say no matter what,” said Ivo Daalder, a former American ambassador to NATO and now the president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, “and the old foreign policy of working together in pursuit of common values.’’
Mr. Pence did acknowledge significant progress in getting more NATO members to live up to their commitment to contribute 2 percent of their gross domestic product to defense by 2024. Even the current secretary general of the NATO alliance, Jens Stoltenberg of Norway, said on Saturday that “European allies are stepping up more for defense.”
But Mr. Pence went further.
He repeated a call that he made in Warsaw on Thursday, during an American-led conference of foreign ministers chiefly from Arab and European states, that Britain, France and Germany withdraw from the 2015 nuclear accord with Iran.
It was a demand they had no intention of complying with, as Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany made clear in an impassioned defense of alliances and Europe’s approach to Iran that preceded Mr. Pence’s speech by only moments.
Mr. Pence, fresh from a visit Friday to the Auschwitz concentration camp, accused Iran of seeking another Holocaust, citing speeches from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader.
He moved on to demands for other steps to wall off Europe from adversaries, insisting that the allies forgo any purchases of Russian arms, or the installation of advanced 5G communications networks made by Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant.
“We cannot ensure the defense of the West,” Mr. Pence said, “if our allies grow dependent on the East.”
The Munich conference has over the decades come to represent the alliance establishment; for years the American delegation was led by the late Senator John McCain of Arizona. (Mr. Pence spoke at a dinner in Mr. McCain’s memory on Friday night.)
Over the years, Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, has come to argue with the allies, and Mr. Pence was followed by one of the most influential officials in the Chinese foreign policy hierarchy, Yang Jiechi. He spent some of his time talking about the United Nations and climate change, perhaps betting that Mr. Pence would mention neither. (He was right.)
Mr. Yang pushed back against Mr. Pence, who had left the auditorium before the Communist Party leader spoke, declaring that “China doesn’t require companies to install a backdoor or to collect intelligence.” But he never addressed the new Chinese law that would require companies like Huawei to assist Chinese intelligence agencies in any investigations.
Mr. Biden seemed to side with the organizers of the conference, who opened it with the release of a report titled, “Who Will Pick Up The Pieces?” It focused on a rapidly restructuring world order, and the anxiety among America’s allies that the Trump administration’s erratic leadership is a threat to their own security.
Mr. Biden picked up on that theme but also tried to stake out a tougher line on Russia than the Trump administration has. He condemned Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, a topic Mr. Pence did not address.
“I’m not concerned about Russian influence in Europe alone,’’ Mr. Biden said. “I’m concerned about Russian influence in America.”
He noted the Obama administration’s sanctions against Russia at the end of its term, without mentioning the widespread sense among his former administration colleagues that, in retrospect, their actions were far too little and too late.
But Mr. Biden also warned against nostalgia and laid out his own challenge for NATO — that it must modernize to deal with new threats, starting with cyberattacks and information warfare. NATO is arguably a decade or more behind in the cyber arena. While it had a long-established playbook to deal with traditional armed invasions and even nuclear conflict, it only recently began discussing an offensive cyberstrategy.
With steady message control, Mr. Pence used every stop on his European visit to reinforce the administration’s message that Iran needed to be confronted and Western allies needed to get in line.
Leaving Auschwitz on Friday, he told reporters aboard his plane to Munich that the trip to the concentration camp had only enforced his belief that the Trump administration should stay heavily aligned with Israel and to “stand strong” against Iran.
“The lesson of the 20th century is that when authoritarian leaders breathe out anti-Semitic threats of violence against the Jewish people,” Mr. Pence said, “freedom-loving people should take them seriously and be prepared to confront them.”
In Munich, he turned briefly to negotiations to resolve a damaging trade war with China, saying that a true solution was contingent on a host of related issues, including the theft of intellectual property and free navigation in the South China Sea.
“President Trump has great respect for President Xi, and so do I,” Mr. Pence said, but added, “Beijing knows where we stand.”
One curious result of the competing messages from Mr. Pence and Mr. Biden is that Ms. Merkel, in her last years in office, has emerged again as the biggest defender of the traditional order. She received a standing ovation when she was asked by the conference’s organizers who would pick up the pieces.
“Only all of us together,” Ms. Merkel replied, to a round of applause.
LINDEN, Ala. — The editorial in The Democrat-Reporter, the newspaper that has served the small western Alabama town of Linden since 1879, appeared on Page 2 last Thursday, but it read as though it could have been written the year the paper was founded.
“Time for the Ku Klux Klan to ride again,” it began.
The unsigned opinion piece, railing against “Democrats in the Republican Party and Democrats” and calling for the return of the most infamous white supremacist group in the nation’s history, went largely unnoticed until Monday, when two student journalists shared photographs of it online.
By Tuesday it was national news, the subject of numerous reports illustrated with stock photos of hooded Klansmen, and the target of widespread condemnation. Representative Terri A. Sewell, a Democrat whose congressional district includes Linden, called on the editor and publisher of the paper, Goodloe Sutton, to apologize and step down.
“For the millions of people of color who have been terrorized by white supremacy, this kind of ‘editorializing’ about lynching is not a joke — it is a threat,” she wrote on Twitter. “These comments are deeply offensive and inappropriate, especially in 2019.”
The reception was about the same in Linden, a struggling town of roughly 2,000 people — 59 percent white and 41 percent black — about 90 miles west of Montgomery. But it stung the community in specific ways. Residents said the editorial made their city seem a heinous place, when it is really more like a deeply flawed one.
“You can still be taken aback by some of the problems we still have,” said Timothy Thurman, the superintendent of the local public school system. Its student population is almost entirely black, he said; most white families in Linden prefer to home-school their children or send them to a private school founded in 1969 at the height of the state’s integration battles.
Yet almost in the same breath, Dr. Thurman, who is black, spoke of friendly relations between the races in town. “Honestly,” he said, “everybody gets along.”
The editorial was also seen as further evidence of the inglorious fall of Mr. Sutton, 80, a fixture in the public life of Linden who inherited the paper from his father and was once widely hailed, along with his late wife, for exposing corruption in the local sheriff’s department.
In the editorial, which he has acknowledged writing, Mr. Sutton blamed Democrats for the United States’ involvement in both world wars, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, as well as the conflicts in the Middle East. And in an interview with The Montgomery Advertiser about the editorial, he went even further, suggesting that the Klan “go up there and clean out D.C.”
“We’ll get the hemp ropes out, loop them over a tall limb and hang all of them,” he told The Advertiser.
Efforts to reach Mr. Sutton for comment on Tuesday by telephone or in person were not successful.
The mayor of Linden, Charles Moore, received a reporter in his office early Tuesday morning. An angry woman, presumably from out of town, had just called him and asked, sardonically, when the city would be holding its next Klan meeting.
Mr. Moore, who is white, said he was disgusted by Mr. Sutton’s article, but not surprised that it had been published: “Oh no, not at all.”
The Democrat-Reporter earned a name far beyond Linden in the 1990s, when it ran a series of articles detailing rampant corruption in the Marengo County Sheriff’s Department, including theft and drug peddling. The sheriff at the time was popular, and the paper was flooded with threats and cancellations of ads and subscriptions.
Mr. Sutton’s wife, Jean Sutton, was the managing editor in those days. But she died of breast cancer in 2003, and the mayor said that changed something. “He lost his wife, and all the credibility went with her,” he said. “She was a very good investigative reporter, and also a real sweet person.”
Mr. Sutton began penning editorials that were racially insensitive and “very hurtful,” Mr. Moore said. An editorial in May 2015 stated that a local mayor had “displayed her African heritage by not enforcing civilized law” and referred repeatedly to black people as “thugs.”
And during the national debate over football players kneeling in protest of police brutality, the paper published an editorial titled “Let football boys kneel.”
“That’s what black folks were taught to do two hundred years ago, kneel before a white man,” it read. “Is that it? Let them kneel!”
Last year, Mr. Moore said, a number of businesses downtown were so incensed by one article that they demanded that the paper remove its boxes from their property.
USA Today reported in 2015 that the paper had a circulation of 3,000, but these days it is not easy to find in Linden. There is a box in front of a closed-up building on Main Street, and another in front of the newspaper’s shed-size office on a side street.
At a gas station called Langley’s, they were not selling it, and a clerk there said, “I don’t know anybody who does.”
Jami Huckabee, 36, a waitress who worked for the paper as a teenager, said The Democrat-Reporter was mired in financial problems even then. Mr. Sutton, she said, “is just a bitter old man” who she thought was calculatedly dropping racist bombs in an effort to attract waning interest: “This is how he sells papers now, because everybody’s boycotted him for various reasons.”
The Feb. 14 issue contained eight pages, with unsigned news articles about art grant applications and a Methodist church’s Brunswick stew dinner. The page facing the editorial featured large photos of local African-American parents posing proudly with sons who had won football scholarships.
A full page was given over to legal notices, a financial lifeline for many small papers. There were ads for local apartments, a local cleaners, a cafe in nearby Demopolis, and the Omaha Steaks company.
A number of residents said that they never saw the paper any more, and had only heard about the editorial after seeing reports on social media. “Most people have dropped their subscriptions,” said Sarah Dailey, the librarian, who said the library does not carry copies either.
Myisha Taylor, 25, a library patron, said on Tuesday that she had not heard about the editorial. But Ms. Taylor, who is black, said she was hardly surprised that such sentiments persisted in Alabama. Linden, she said, “is mostly run by people like that — all of that’s still active, it’s just undercover.”
Other black residents strongly disagreed. “Living here is good, I cannot lie,” said Aleicia White, 51, a disabled former worker at a wood products company. “The people are friendly, and I live in an all-white neighborhood.”
Either way, residents said there had been no big resurgence in pro-Klan sentiment in the area.
Kenneth Barrineau, who heads the Heart of Marengo Chamber of Commerce, said he worried about the impact of the international bad press on a town where a job in a paper mill was often the best work to be had, and where no one had figured out how to lure back the children who go off to distant colleges.
“I would say this is not a story about Linden, Alabama,” he said. “This is a story about the local newspaper.”
At the Democrat-Reporter’s tiny office Tuesday, an African-American woman opened the door after a reporter knocked. She said no one could talk until Thursday, and added that she had no comment about the editorial.
Mr. Sutton was easier to find in city court records, which indicated that he had gone to court Aug. 23 to fight a charge of littering and had lost the case. He was fined $432.50.
Wendy Lewis, the court clerk, said that a strong wind had caught hold of advertising inserts that were stacked outside the Democrat-Reporter’s offices and had blown them around.
“Oh, it was a mess,” she said. “It was all over town.”
The former Auburn assistant basketball coach Chuck Person pleaded guilty on Tuesday to accepting nearly $100,000 to steer his players toward agents and advisers who had bribed him.
Person was fired after the initial revelation of the charges in September 2017. He became the fourth assistant coach to plead guilty to charges that stemmed from cases alleging widespread corruption in college basketball recruiting. His bribery trial had been set to begin later this year.
“As he has now admitted, Chuck Person abused his position as a coach and mentor to student-athletes in exchange for personal gain,” Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a statement. “In taking tens of thousands of dollars in cash bribes, Person not only placed personal financial gain above his obligations to his employer and the student-athletes he coached, but he broke the law.”
Person’s lawyer declined to comment.
Person starred at Auburn before a successful N.B.A. career in the 1980s and 1990s.
In a separate but related case, a jury in October convicted a former Adidas executive, a former Adidas consultant and an aspiring agent of fraud for attempting to funnel money from the apparel giant to the families of high school prospects in exchange for their commitment to colleges Adidas sponsored. Earlier this month, those men were given commensurately lenient sentences that nonetheless included prison.
Two of those men are set to be tried in another case next month. Their lawyers have disputed basic facts alleged by prosecutors — to an extent they did not in the first case, which rested more on a debate over whether their conduct constituted not only illicit behavior but federal crimes. The case may include testimony from some of the best-known coaches in college basketball.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Lawmakers today again refused to endorse Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to withdraw Britain from the European Union.
After two previous rejections, the vote leaves Mrs. May’s deal in ruins and adds further confusion to the country’s politics, just two weeks before the scheduled departure date.
What’s next: The defeat appears to leave the increasingly weakened prime minister with two unpalatable options in the short run: Britain can leave the bloc on April 12 with no deal, a chaotic and potentially economically damaging withdrawal; or Mrs. May can ask European leaders — who have ruled out a short delay if her plan failed — for what could be a long postponement.
Shares of Lyft, the ride-hailing company, opened for trading today at $87.24, above the public offering price of $72. At the I.P.O. price, Lyft had a market value of over $24 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade.
What’s next: Among those expected to follow in Lyft’s footsteps are its main rival, Uber, as well as the digital pinboard company Pinterest and the messaging platform Slack. Beyond cementing the place of the companies in people’s lives, public trading would unleash a new wave of wealth in the tech industry. Here’s a look at who stands to get rich.
A lawsuit filed on Thursday accused members of the Sackler family, who own the maker of the opioid painkiller OxyContin, of systematic fraud. The suit also includes major pharmaceutical companies that distributed alarming amounts of prescription painkillers during a rising abuse epidemic that has killed hundreds of thousands of people across the U.S.
The state is seeking, among other goals, to claw back money that it says was transferred from the Sackler-owned Purdue Pharma to private or offshore accounts in an effort to shield the assets from litigation.
Response: A spokesman for the Sackler family called the allegations “a misguided attempt to place blame where it does not belong for a complex public health crisis. We strongly deny these allegations, which are inconsistent with the factual record, and will vigorously defend against them.”
“After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump declared at a rally in Michigan on Thursday, his first since the end of the special counsel’s investigation. “The collusion delusion is over.”
Mr. Trump took particular delight in ridiculing Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, who faced calls from Republicans on Thursday to step down as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. (He didn’t.) 
Related: The still-secret report submitted last week by the special counsel was more than 300 pages long, the Justice Department has acknowledged. Attorney General William Barr, who released a four-page summary of the report last weekend, has indicated that redacting the report for classified and grand jury information will most likely take weeks.
Closer look: Mr. Trump points with pride to last year’s economic growth and promises even faster growth to come. But economic data suggest that a slowdown is underway.
The Pentagon’s Africa Command recently outfitted gunships with devices that allow for covert strikes against the Shabab in Somalia. The dispensers can be discreetly fitted onto unarmed surveillance planes, too.
In interviews with The Times, military officials discussed the types of weapons the Pentagon has tested, offering insight into how Special Operations forces plan to fight in the future.
Plastic bag ban: New York State will prohibit many single-use plastic bags from retail sales by next March. It would be the second statewide ban in the country, after California.
Special Olympics funding: President Trump has reversed the decision in his administration’s proposed budget to cut the money allocated to the nonprofit organization.
71 pain-free years: The discovery of a genetic mutation in a Scottish woman who has felt little pain or anxiety may lead to new treatment.
Snapshot: Above, the Popocatépetl volcano near Puebla, Mexico, on Thursday. Popocatépetl, whose name means “smoking mountain” in Nahuatl, the language of the Aztecs, sprang back to life in 1994 after a half-century of inactivity. Over the past few weeks, the volcano has become more active. 
In memoriam: Agnès Varda, a groundbreaking French filmmaker who was closely associated with the New Wave, died today in Paris. She was 90.
N.C.A.A. basketball: Gonzaga, Purdue, Texas Tech and Virginia advanced in the men’s tournament on Thursday. Here’s a look ahead at today’s scoreboard, as well as one for the women’s tournament.
News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.
Modern Love: In this week’s column, a man would rather not think about race when dating but has found that’s hard to avoid.
Late-night comedy: Trevor Noah revisited the college admissions scandal: “The whole country has been rocked by the news that hundreds of parents have been accused of bribing their kids’ way into elite colleges — and also U.S.C.”
What we’re reading: This article in The Los Angeles Times, recommended by Marc Lacey, the national editor. “My grandmother did not slather Vicks VapoRub on me,” he writes. “Neither did my mom. But I learned later, as this article notes, that many consider the pungent salve a cure-all.”
Cook: Turmeric rice with tomatoes is supremely comforting.
Listen: Billie Eilish is the teen superstar you may not have heard of — yet. Her debut album, “When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go?,” is out today.
Watch: “Barry” and “Veep,” two HBO favorites, return this weekend. Here’s the best TV over the next few days.
Read: A new biography, “First: Sandra Day O’Connor,” by Evan Thomas, navigates the pathbreaking career of the first woman named to the U.S. Supreme Court. It’s one of 10 new books we recommend this week. 
Smarter Living: The desire not to miss out on anything means you’re not able to fully pay attention to anything. Putting reasonable boundaries in place has many benefits, so try no-phone zones at home and, at work, practice focusing intensely for around 45 minutes and then indulging in a 15-minute break.
And you can help limit deforestation, shipping emissions and packaging by greening your coffee habit.
Two American astronauts are making a spacewalk today, just not the two who would have made history. (Watch live on NASA’s website.)
One of the two astronauts, Christina Koch, was originally paired with Anne McClain for what was supposed to be the first all-female spacewalk. It was canceled after Ms. McClain found that the available spacesuit was too roomy, a safety issue that raised questions of sexism.
That made us think about the media coverage of women in space. In 1963, the cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, 26, became the first, orbiting the Earth aboard the Vostok 6. She is now 82 and a member of Russia’s Parliament.
“Soviet Blonde Orbiting as First Woman in Space” was a headline in The New York Herald Tribune’s European edition, which reported: “Valentina — or Valya, by which she is known to her friends — seemed to wipe away the gloom of Moscow’s gray skies.”
LOS ANGELES — The criminal case involving one of President Trump’s leading adversaries and the world’s biggest shoe company has also ensnared an unlikely figure from the youth basketball world.
The coach, Gary Franklin Sr., started his club from scratch in Los Angeles and ran a program known for its rectitude, according to Sonny Vaccaro, the former Nike and Adidas executive who essentially forged the relationship between the shoe industry and the summer youth basketball circuit. What began as a team for Franklin to coach his then 10-year-old son became a powerhouse club that attracted future N.B.A. stars and major college recruits, and one that steered clear of any scandals.
“He was one of the guys who built it up through his own resources, and his program had a reputation as one of the ‘good guys,’” Vaccaro said of Franklin in an interview this week.
Franklin’s club, California Supreme, and others like it are major participants in a system involving youth basketball, shoe companies and colleges that supplies the professional game with a deep reservoir of talent. And Michael Avenatti knew it.
Now Franklin has become a central figure in the case against Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing Stormy Daniels, the adult film star, in her lawsuit against President Trump. Whether Franklin, who has not been charged, is an accomplice, a co-conspirator or simply collateral damage is not yet clear, but prosecutors’ revelations about his involvement have stunned those who have known him for years.
The question in the club basketball world is, could Franklin have morphed from a stickler who played by the rules into the latest symbol of an amateur basketball world that has spun out of control?
“Cal Supreme was always the best team for doing things by the book, because there were a lot of other teams that didn’t do it by the book,” said Andy Brown, a former forward for Cal Supreme who went on to play at Stanford. “And Cal Supreme did it by the book.”
California Supreme reached its zenith at the 2016 Peach Jam, a summertime showcase for the best travel basketball teams and players in the country. In the final event of the Nike-sponsored league, Deandre Ayton, a towering Bahamian who was about to turn 18, helped the team reel off a huge winning streak before Cal Supreme fell to the eventual champions.
For Franklin, a soft-spoken coach from Los Angeles, the run was a triumph. His Nike-sponsored team was one of the best in the country in what is now known as grass-roots basketball.
Three years later, Franklin, 51, is in a different spotlight, with federal prosecutors accusing Avenatti of extortion for threatening Nike with the release of information that Avenatti had pledged would damage the company’s stock-market value to the tune of a few billion dollars. Specifically, Avenatti had told Nike lawyers this month that a coach in Nike’s grass-roots basketball league had approached him with information that company employees had paid the families of three players, prosecutors said. Avenatti, prosecutors said, demanded that Nike pay millions to make the whole thing go away.
Paying players and their families would violate N.C.A.A. rules, rendering the players ineligible for college play. Also, if the money was paid in exchange for players to commit to colleges Nike sponsors, it would resemble the behavior that recently led to federal fraud convictions for two former Adidas employees.
Two people familiar with the investigation confirmed that the unidentified coach in the complaint is Franklin. Nike had recently declined to renew its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme, which was worth more than $70,000 annually. Franklin could not be reached for comment.
Grass-roots basketball is often erroneously called A.A.U. basketball, even in prosecutors’ court filings. That is a misnomer because the elite leagues are not sponsored by the Amateur Athletic Union. Rather, they are supported by sneaker companies that spend hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to organize tournaments from April through July. The teenage players who participate are outfitted, from head to toe, in apparel made by and bearing the logo of the league’s sponsor.
Sneaker companies like Nike and Adidas also pay thousands of dollars each year to sponsor the teams themselves as a sort of long-term investment strategy: They hope to build brand loyalty among young players who could eventually become stars. Get players into your gear early, the thinking goes, and you may be more likely to land them as spokesmen when they turn pro and have even more influence over the world’s fans — and their wallets.
“Sneaker companies want to make money,” said Dr. Todd Boyd, a professor at the University of Southern California who was the executive producer of a 2016 documentary, “At All Costs: Life Inside A.A.U. Basketball.” “That’s their objective. And if you have a kid who’s good enough to go on to the N.B.A., and he chooses to continue wearing these shoes, you’ve made a long-term investment that could pay off for years.”
At the same time, the grass-roots basketball landscape has shifted in recent years as N.B.A. players like Bradley Beal, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony have increasingly become involved in forming their own teams. These are players who already have partnerships with shoe companies and can help subsidize costs on their own. Last year, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, who has an endorsement deal with Nike’s Jordan brand, organized a Los Angeles-based team that advanced to the playoffs at the Peach Jam.
Franklin was far from the N.B.A. when he started his team.
A flattering portrait of Franklin is included in “Play Their Hearts Out,” a 2010 book by George Dohrmann that details youth basketball culture in Southern California. Franklin, according to the book, played basketball and football at Los Angeles Valley College. Later, he doted on his son, Gary Jr., creating a club team he initially called the Runnin’ Rebels. He preached fundamentals during their practices at Manual Arts High School and spoke openly about his faith in God. Gary Franklin Jr. went on to play college basketball at Baylor.
Cal Supreme did not have lavish resources. When Brown, the Stanford player, was with the team, it practiced at various Los Angeles-area high schools. Parents subsidized costs. And players paid for their own meals at tournaments.
Yet neither Brown nor his teammates were naïve about the world they inhabited.
“Everybody who played knew what was going on,” Brown said. “We all knew people who were getting paid, we all knew people who were getting free stuff — we all knew it. Now, it’s all coming out. So it’s shocking, but it’s not shocking, because we all knew it was happening.”
For years, the sponsorship deals have been heavily dependent on grass-roots coaches’ attracting the best players to their programs. Cal Supreme appeared to have enough talent over the years to keep Nike interested, producing players who ultimately landed at major college programs like Southern California, Oregon and Arizona, along with several who went to the N.B.A.
Big names circled in Cal Supreme’s orbit. Miles Simon, a guard who had won an N.C.A.A. championship while playing at Arizona, was one of the program’s coaches from 2011 to 2014. (Simon, who now works as an assistant for the Lakers, declined to comment through a Lakers spokeswoman.) Shareef O’Neal, a top-tier recruit and the son of Shaquille O’Neal, played for Cal Supreme before going to U.C.L.A. More recently, Percy Miller, the businessman and rapper known as Master P, was listed on Cal Supreme’s website as a team partner.
Ayton, who spent a season at Arizona before the Phoenix Suns made him the top overall pick in the 2018 N.B.A. draft, was Cal Supreme’s highest-profile player. But in a twist, after years of wearing Nikes, Ayton signed a lucrative deal to wear Pumas when he went to the N.B.A. For Nike, it was an investment that did not pay off.
It remains unclear whether Ayton’s deal played any role in Nike’s decision not to extend its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme.
Cassius Stanley, a top-30 recruit and a senior at Sierra Canyon High School outside Los Angeles, played for Cal Supreme in 2016 and for Westbrook’s team in 2018. His father, Jerome Stanley, who works as a lawyer, said that as far as he knew, Nike had never provided Cal Supreme players or their family members with benefits that would violate N.C.A.A. rules.
“It is very sad that Coach Gary has gotten himself tangled up in this mess,” Stanley said. “I feel bad for him and his family, and I pray that he and his lawyers can help him move on and not be damaged or used any more than he has been the past few days.”
MONTREAL — “They make rents go up and steal our women.” They “travel in packs of 10 and complain all the time.” “There are too many French people on the Plateau.”
These are some of the lyrics of a song written by Fred Schneider, a 38-year-old advertising copywriter from France, who was belting them out on a recent evening at a thronged bar in Montreal.
The largely Quebecois crowd roared with laughter as the song poked fun at an influx of snobbish, chain-smoking, “know-it-all” French who are “occupying” the Plateau-Mont-Royal neighborhood. The area is so replete with French residents, French bakeries and Parisian accents that it is sometimes referred to sardonically by Montrealers as “Nouvelle-France,” France’s former North American colony.
Mr. Schneider, whose self-mocking performances sometimes include singing while dancing with a baguette, is among the droves of French people who have flocked to Montreal in recent years. They are drawn by a quest to find the American dream in the language of Molière and motivated, in part, by economic doldrums back home.
Some Montrealers call them “FFF’s” — French from France.
But as is often the case with old relatives, relations can be complicated. Quebecers and the French sometimes sound like two peoples divided by a common language.
[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]
Louis Myard, a politics student at the University of Montreal, whose family moved from Paris to Montreal several years ago, mused that “a Mexican and a Chinese person had more in common than a Frenchman and a Quebecer.”
“We play soccer, Quebecers play hockey,” he said. “We say “diner,” (dinner) they say “souper” (supper); we prefer wine, they prefer beer; we smoke cigarettes, they smoke pot.”
Mr. Myard, 22, said romance in feminist Quebec also posed challenges for young men reared in “machismo” France.
“I have been glared at for opening the door for a Quebecois woman and once called a Quebecois girl I liked, ‘my little baby,’” he recalled. “She got very annoyed and said, ‘I am not your baby!’”
Salomé Zimmerlin, a part-time French model who came here to study economics at McGill University, said she was initially taken aback by Quebecers using the informal pronoun “tu” rather than the more formal “vous” even when addressing strangers, though she quickly embraced the informality.
Also surprising to her were Quebec expressions such as “ma blonde” — “my girlfriend” — which means “my blonde” to a French ear.
But Ms. Zimmerlin, 23, who started her own unisex fashion brand, “Kafka,” said any culture shock had been more than offset by the attraction of a society she said was far less rigid than hierarchical France.
“If I had tried to start a fashion label in Paris, people would’ve laughed in my face due to my lack of experience,” she said. “Here, the reaction was, ‘Show me what you can do!’”
Whatever the challenges, mutual ardor between France and Quebec was on full display during a visit last month by Quebec’s premier François Legault to Paris, where the right-leaning former businessman was greeted like a world leader by President Emmanuel Macron.
Mr. Legault also made it clear that while he wanted to reduce the number of immigrants coming to Quebec, that most certainly did not apply to the nation that gave the world pain au chocolat.
There was a time when some in Mother France would sneer at what they perceived as Quebec’s rustic “patois,” while Quebecers, in turn, would complain about the “maudits français” — or “damned French.”
These days, however, Le Monde has proclaimed Quebec an “El Dorado” for a new generation of French drawn by, among other things, an unemployment rate of about 5.5 percent, compared with more than 9 percent in France, and some advantages under immigration rules for speaking and writing French.
Between 2013 and 2017, France provided the second largest number of immigrants to Quebec after the Chinese, according to Quebec’s ministry of immigration. There are about 130,000 French people in Montreal.
Yet the disorientation for the new arrivals can be as unrelenting as the Canadian winter. After all, poutine, the gravy-drenched cheese fries beloved in Quebec, would seem to owe more to British and American culture than to France. Then, there are all those English words that have infiltrated the language like “cute,” “weird” and “fun.”
Mathieu Lalancette, a Quebecer who made “French PQ,” a documentary about the French in Quebec, noted many French were shocked to discover that a common language doesn’t mean a common culture.
“We Quebecers know we are very different from the French but many French who come here think they are taking the train and going to the French countryside,” he said.
While Quebecers have long looked to Enlightenment France for inspiration, Gérard Bouchard, an eminent historian and sociologist with the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, said that as they “gained a stronger sense of identity in the 1960s, they increasingly looked to North America — not France — for self-definition.”
The new French arrivals typically come armed with some knowledge of Quebec through exposure to the music of Quebec singers popular in France like Celine Dion and Garou or to French-language films by the Quebec wunderkind Xavier Dolan — albeit sometimes shown with French subtitles in Paris cinemas.
But Catherine Feuillet, the consul general of France in Montreal, noted that Quebecers were understandably irritated by those of her compatriots who arrived in Quebec unable to find Quebec on a map or ignorant of its recent history.
If the French were sometimes not fully up-to-date about their new home, she added, it was, perhaps, because losing Quebec to the British in 1763 was “something they would rather forget.”
She noted some Quebecers asked, “‘Couldn’t the French have fought some more?’”
At the same time, Gallic tempers can flare when their French-speaking cousins surpass them.
In March, when Agropur, a Quebec dairy cooperative, edged out a French dairy producer to win the prize for having the world’s best Camembert, some French people were horrified.
“It’s a scandal, a fraud,” VSD, a glossy weekly magazine in France, proclaimed.
Nor are Quebecers amused by periodic breathless reports in the French media depicting Quebec as a frigid maple tree-covered frontier where, according to an article in the French magazine Elle à Table, every year pigs are “sacrificed” around Easter time before being frozen in the open air.
After an outcry here, the writer of the article apologized, acknowledging that the “very ancient” ritual no longer takes place in contemporary Quebec.
Cultural misunderstandings aside, the French influx shows little sign of abating.
Adeline Alleno, a 29-year-old from Paris, said that after spending $17,000 on her master’s degree in France, she was only able to find work there in a shoe store. In Montreal, she said, she found a senior marketing job in a matter of weeks.
She said her generation had been galvanized by President Macron, but were frustrated by his inability to deliver on his promises.
“Here I can find a good job, buy a house, am close to nature and have quality of life, and I can still live in French,” she said, adding: “I am angry at France for failing me.”
Going back at least a decade, cars have been targeted by hackers, some who ended up working with the industry, others acting maliciously. But vehicles now carry far more electronic equipment, and autonomous driving, relying on sensors, cameras and radar, is on the horizon, with all kinds of ripe new targets.
Concern that cars could be seriously hacked — by criminals, terrorists or even rogue governments — has prompted a new round of security efforts on the part of the auto industry.
As far back as 2010, a disgruntled former employee at Texas Auto Center in Austin used a co-worker’s account to log into company software used for car repossession. He disabled over 100 cars, and owners who were up to date on their payments suddenly found their vehicles honking furiously, and unable to start.
In 2015, a veteran hacker named Samy Kamkar built a device for under $100 that he said could find, unlock and remotely start any General Motors car equipped with the OnStar communications system. Luckily, Mr. Kamkar was acting as a “white hat,” and not selling his OwnStar device to unscrupulous hackers.
“I worked with G.M. to resolve that issue,” he said, and that particular vulnerability is gone. “Cars are getting more secure, but it’s a long cycle to get the necessary new software and hardware installed.”
Dan Flores, a G.M. cybersecurity and safety spokesman, confirmed the collaboration with Mr. Kamkar. “We recognize the importance of the work that researchers, like Samy, do to help advance the work in this area,” he said in an email.
Securing cars is a big challenge, which is why some companies that traditionally prefer to go it alone have teamed up to share best practices.
Digital threats to self-driving cars, according to a 2018 University of Michigan report, “include hackers who would try to take control over or shut down a vehicle, criminals who could try to ransom a vehicle or its passengers and thieves who would direct a self-driving car to relocate itself to the local chop-shop.”
The average car has over 150 million lines of computer code, and some have even more than a Boeing 787, according to a 2018 KPMG report. That complexity, the report said, “creates a real risk of cyberattack — a risk we fear many companies in the automotive industry may be underestimating.”
That view is widespread. “From my perspective, automakers were a little surprised and caught off guard by this threat,” said Doug Newcomb, a senior industry analyst at Wards Intelligence. “They added all this connectivity, but got ahead of themselves and don’t always think of the vulnerabilities that exist. It’s an ongoing issue, not a fix-it-and-forget-it thing.”
Failing to protect consumers can be costly, said Steve Tengler, a principal at the consulting company Kugler Maag Cie who has worked at Ford, Nissan and G.M., and was a senior director of connected vehicle cybersecurity at Honeywell.
Automakers are legally bound to provide state-of-the-art protection for their cars, Mr. Tengler said. “Legal precedents show that it’s not enough to provide a product that is kind of safe,” he said. “Companies don’t have to put themselves out of business to provide the safest technology, but they do have to work within their commercial ability.”
Mr. Tengler said the industry was a frequent target. “Every automaker has been hacked — every one of them,” he said. “Attacks aren’t a matter of if, but when and how.”
Once a car is out of warranty, automakers are used to cutting or at least loosening their ties. But hacking issues mean that protection will most likely require factory-to-junkyard monitoring.
In 2015, Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4 million cars and trucks after Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller demonstrated, in a Wired magazine article, that they could remotely control a Jeep Cherokee’s brakes, radio, wipers and other functions by gaining access through its UConnect infotainment system.
The company declined to comment on any subsequent security changes.
Dr. André Weimerskirch, vice president for cybersecurity and functional safety at Lear Corporation, said that automakers had made “huge improvements” in recent years, and that joint efforts involving the industry, academia and standards organizations had also led to gains.
Most car hackers have been wearing those white hats, with no criminal intent, but imagining what could happen led to the 2015 formation of the Automotive Information Sharing and Analysis Center, known as Auto-ISAC. Most of the world’s automakers are members.
Faye Francy, the center’s executive director, described the Jeep episode as “a good wake-up call for the industry.”
“The hackers are smart guys, very educated,” she said. “It’s not simple to do what they did. We’re fortunate that there hasn’t been another breach, but it’s not impossible.”
Not impossible, but still difficult. Ron Plesco, a principal at KPMG Cyber Security Services, agrees that hacking into a car’s driver controls requires “a lot of knowledge and effort.”
“It’s not as easy as Hollywood claims it is,” he said.
That’s one reason we haven’t seen more major attacks. But Mr. Plesco argues that today there isn’t much incentive for thieves, since the identity information stored onboard vehicles is fairly limited.
“But,” he added, “that’s about to change as we do more purchasing through the dashboard of the car. The automobile is becoming another computer that can be hacked.”
New infotainment and autonomous features are important selling points, but because most consumers assume their cars are safe, automakers tend to keep cybersecurity news in the background. Much is happening behind the curtain, however. Some private security firms say they are signing on with major automakers to provide expert protection.
“There are multiple ways for hackers to get in, and it’s the job of the whole industry to defend against it,” said Dan Sahar, a vice president at Upstream Security in Israel. “Just one hack can cost a manufacturer tens of millions of dollars, and that doesn’t include the brand damage. And the threat is getting more serious.”
According to Mr. Sahar, “2018 saw more than 60 documented automotive-related cybersecurity incidents, a sixfold increase in just four years.”
Upstream is working with “a handful” of manufacturers, Mr. Sahar said. “Automakers are focused on cybersecurity, but few say they can do it on their own,” he said.
A 2019 Upstream report extrapolates a cost topping $1.1 billion for a breach that requires a large recall. The opportunity will certainly be there for criminal hackers. Juniper Research of Britain estimated in a 2018 report that by 2023 some 775 million cars would be connected to the web in some way (up from 330 million in 2018).
Mr. Tengler, of Kugler Maag Cie, said it was easy to picture the danger that hackers posed to autonomous vehicles — potentially redirecting them as part of a theft. But the Jeep hack proved “it doesn’t matter if someone is driving,” he said. “If they can take control of the car, the vulnerable technology is already there.”
Thieves have stolen cars by using fairly simple electronic technology, some of it freely available. A device that amplifies the signals from a car’s remote can be used to unlock the target vehicle’s doors. Mr. Kamkar said he had built such devices from off-the-shelf components for approximately $50.
“It’s a lot simpler than people think,” he said.
Other devices include a radio transmitter that cycles through huge numbers of possible combinations until they “crack” the target car’s key fob. In 2006, that was reportedly how the soccer star David Beckham’s armor-plated BMW X5 was stolen in Madrid. A second X5 belonging to Mr. Beckham was also stolen.
“Car thieves used to have crowbars; now they use laptops,” said Mr. Plesco at KPMG.
Jono Anderson, also a principal at KPMG, said the auto industry needed to learn from aerospace.
“They’re very familiar with this kind of security,” Mr. Anderson said, “but it’s new to the auto industry. Maybe it’s possible to hack the entertainment system in a plane and get free movies, but it’s virtually impossible to hack the actual communications.”
[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]
HAMPTON BAYS, N.Y. — They descended in droves on the sleepy harbor town, rousing it from its winter hibernation for a solemn ritual. Thousands of police officers in dress uniforms gathered on Wednesday at a Long Island church to say goodbye to one of their own, a veteran New York detective killed in the line of duty.
The officers stretched from the Church of St. Rosalie in Hampton Bays as far east as the eye could see, stacked 10-deep in some places along Montauk Highway. With nothing but the lonely cadence of a bass drum, they stood at attention in stoic silence and raised white-gloved hands as a black hearse quietly passed through town. Clouds of breath rose above their salutes into a steel-gray sky.
Inside the hearse lay the coffin of Detective Brian Simonsen, shield number 3877, who was shot in the chest while responding to a robbery on a frigid night in Queens.
The officers came from as nearby as Suffolk County and as far as Milwaukee and San Diego. The crowd of about 6,000 was a fitting tribute for a 19-year veteran of the New York Police Department, known for his smile, his good humor and his ability to bring people together.
“It was never just a job for him; it was something much more powerful,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a eulogy. “Brian had a human instinct. He had the ability to bring our officers and our community closer and closer together.”
Earlier, as dawn crept over Hampton Bays, the Starbucks opposite the church had served as a grim reunion space. Officers, detectives and commanders from across the region greeted longtime friends with hugs and back slaps. They traded stories of promotions and precinct rotations. They shined brass buttons and tightened neckties.
It might have been mistaken for a more joyous occasion, had a black stripe not cut across each badge.
The circumstances surrounding Detective Simonsen’s death were familiar to many officers. On the evening of Feb. 12, he was in Queens investigating an armed robbery. A physician had been severely beaten — his nose broken — and threatened at gunpoint before he gave up his wallet and phone.
It was the kind of case Detective Simonsen had specialized in during his long career at the 102nd Precinct. When the police got a tip that a man sought in the case had been spotted, Detective Simonsen and his supervisor, Sgt. Matthew Gorman, went in a car to search for him.
As they drove, a call came over the radio about an armed robbery at a nearby cellphone store. Detective Simonsen and Sergeant Gorman arrived alongside patrol officers. Neither was wearing body armor.
As Sergeant Gorman and two officers entered the store, Christopher Ransom, 27, emerged from a back room, waving what was later discovered to be a fake pistol. Sergeant Gorman and the officers backed out of the entrance. Mr. Ransom came toward the door and jerked the imitation gun at officers as if he were firing, according to police and court records.
Seven police officers fired 42 rounds in the next 11 seconds. Eight hit Mr. Ransom, who survived. Another struck Sergeant Gorman in the thigh. He, too, lived. But one bullet hit Detective Simonsen in the chest, mortally wounding him. That a police officer fired the fatal bullet only deepened the grief the detective’s death has cast over the police force.
“Let me tell you something. Those cops responded to a call for help. They didn’t hesitate. And they are not to blame,” said the police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, his voice cracking during a eulogy. “The two people responsible for Brian’s death — the only two — are the career criminals who decided to go to that store on Tuesday night and commit an armed robbery.”
Jagger Freeman, 25, who the police have said acted as Mr. Ransom’s lookout, has also been arrested.
Mr. O’Neill added that Mr. Ransom, who has been charged with murder, had a long arrest record. “He’s a criminal. He’s a thief. And now he’s responsible for Brian’s death,” the commissioner said.
In a twist, the victim in the robbery that Detective Simonsen was investigating was one of the doctors on duty at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center the night the detective died, Mr. O’Neill said. Officers have since made two additional arrests in that case.
“One of the final tributes paid to Brian was the way his fellow detectives took over that brutal Feb. 4 robbery case of his, working hard on it, even as they grappled with his loss,” Mr. O’Neill said.
To booming applause, Mr. O’Neill then promoted Detective Simonsen posthumously to detective, first-grade. The ovation lasted almost a full minute.
Detective Simonsen had spent his life on Long Island, growing up in Riverhead and settling on a quiet street in Calverton with his wife, Leanne, a nurse he married in 2013.
During the memorial, Detective Simonsen was remembered as a stalwart friend and a pillar of the neighborhood who was always quick to lend a hand or open his home. He once insisted that his partner, Detective Ricky Waters, who was going through a divorce, live with him in Calverton.
“Brian was a true friend. He never wanted anything in return other than to know that I was O.K. and back on my feet,” Detective Waters said through sobs. “I will miss my partner. But mostly I will miss my friend.”
On Detective Simonsen’s street, people in nearly every home had tied blue and black ribbons to poles, mailboxes and trees. Several neighbors flew black and white American flags with a single blue line, a symbol of support for the police.
The funeral procession wound its way to the northern edge of Flanders Bay, then to Jamesport Cemetery, a modest graveyard on a gentle hill, not far from where Detective Simonsen grew up.
At 12:30 p.m., dozens of officers arrived in buses and arranged themselves next to the grave site. They raised white gloves to their foreheads as six uniformed men lowered the black coffin into the grave. The floral arrangements nearby included one made of white flowers that spelled the detective’s nickname, “Smiles.” As he was laid to rest, snow flurries started to fall.
Get the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________
It is unusual for American criminal laws to be used as tools of global trade policy. But that is what has happened these past few months, as the United States has confronted Chinese companies accused of stealing technology and violating economic sanctions laws.
At the center of the controversy: Huawei. The Justice Department has unsealed two indictments against the Chinese technology company and its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou. Both are accused of a long-running scheme to steal trade secrets and conduct business with Iranian companies in violation of economic sanctions against the country.
But can the Justice Department actually obtain convictions that will dissuade Chinese companies from stealing intellectual property?
In the first indictment, filed in Seattle, Huawei and its American subsidiary are accused of stealing trade secrets from T-Mobile. The telecommunications company sued Huawei in 2014, and that civil case became the foundation for the Justice Department’s charges of conspiracy, attempted theft of trade secrets and wire fraud. Prosecutors also added an obstruction-of-justice charge, which involves both the civil case and the grand jury investigation.
The trade secrets statute makes it a federal crime to steal or obtain by fraud a trade secret related to any product or service. The law defines a “trade secret” broadly to include “all forms and types of financial, business, scientific, technical, economic or engineering information,” including intangible products like software.
The second indictment, filed in Brooklyn, accused Ms. Meng and Huawei of defrauding four banks into clearing transactions with Iran through a subsidiary, Skycom, with which the parent company claimed it had severed ties. As with the Seattle charges, federal prosecutors also accused the company of trying to impede the investigation, by lying to the federal government, as well as concealing and destroying evidence, which included moving potential witnesses back to China, where they would be beyond the reach of prosecutors.
The Justice Department seeks the extradition of Ms. Meng, who was arrested in Canada, to the United States to face charges that she participated in a fraudulent scheme to mislead banks, which included lying about the reasons one bank decided to sever ties with Huawei.
But the indictments against Huawei are just another step in the pursuit of Chinese companies that have violated United States laws.
In November, the Justice Department announced that it was devoting resources to a new “China Initiative” to identify cases involving theft of trade secrets by Chinese companies.
The same month, prosecutors unveiled criminal charges in San Jose, Calif., against a Chinese government-owned company, Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit; a Taiwanese company, United Microelectronics; and three Taiwanese nationals. The case involves theft of trade secrets from Micron Technology related to DRAM computer memory chips, which can be found in almost all modern computerized devices.
The Justice Department also filed a civil complaint in the same case, seeking to prevent the companies from transferring any technology involving the memory chips outside the United States.
The Justice Department has obtained significant penalties from parties that have violated economic sanctions laws, including a nearly $9 billion payment from BNP Paribas after it pleaded guilty to processing billions of dollars of transactions in violation of sanctions imposed on Cuba, Iran and Sudan.
If Huawei’s involvement in trade secret theft and sanctions violations reaches to the highest levels, including Ms. Meng, then under a provision of the federal sentencing guidelines a court could determine that the company was “operated primarily for a criminal purpose or primarily by criminal means.” That would authorize a penalty “sufficient to divest the organization of all its net assets” — the corporate death penalty. That is unlikely, but it is the ultimate power that federal prosecutors have to stop a company from committing crimes.
The use of criminal laws to pursue Chinese companies is a new front in the continuing battle over theft of intellectual property and violation of American sanctions. But whether companies based in China are concerned about possible criminal charges remains an open question, because prosecutors could have a difficult time collecting any fines against them. So the goal of keeping technology safe from theft is unlikely to abate — making it a point of contention between the United States and China for some time to come.
The North Carolina political operative who oversaw a fraud-ridden voter-turnout effort on behalf of a Republican congressional candidate was arrested on Wednesday, a prosecutor said, after a grand jury accused him of a series of felonies.
The campaign contractor, L. McCrae Dowless Jr., was among five people charged in Wake County, N.C., in connection with misconduct related to absentee ballots. The prosecutions were a vigorous legal backlash against a rare instance of election fraud and cast a still-darkening shadow over North Carolina, where state regulators recently ordered a new election in the Ninth District after finding that Mr. Dowless had orchestrated an illicit scheme for Mark Harris, the Republican candidate.
“These indictments should serve as a stern warning to anyone trying to defraud elections in North Carolina,” Kim Strach, the executive director of the North Carolina State Board of Elections, said in a statement.
The charges that were unsealed on Wednesday were not tied to the 2018 general election, which investigators are still examining and which Mr. Harris once appeared to have won by 905 votes. Instead, this week’s indictments were linked to an election in 2016, when Mr. Dowless worked for a different candidate, and the 2018 primary, when he was effectively on the Harris campaign’s payroll.
But the indictments describe many of the same activities that investigators believe played out last fall, when Mr. Harris was locked in a tight race with Dan McCready, the Democratic nominee. Mr. Dowless, for instance, was accused of directing his associates to harvest absentee ballots from voters and instructing workers to sign ballot envelopes as if they had been legitimate witnesses. North Carolina law typically forbids third parties from handling absentee ballots.
During parts of both the 2016 and 2018 elections, the indictments said, Mr. Dowless’s conduct “served to undermine the integrity of the absentee ballot process and the public’s confidence in the outcome of the electoral process.” According to the indictment, spoiled ballots were tabulated in both races, including the 2018 primary, when Mr. Harris defeated Representative Robert M. Pittenger by 828 votes. In that contest, Mr. Harris won 437 of the 456 ballots cast through the mail in Bladen County, the hub of Mr. Dowless’s operation.
It was not clear on Wednesday how many ballots were compromised and counted during the primary.
Mr. Dowless’s lawyer did not respond to a message, and a woman who answered the phone at her office in Elizabethtown, N.C., declined to comment. Last week, after Mr. Dowless declined to testify during an evidentiary hearing before the state elections board, the lawyer, Cynthia Singletary, said, “I don’t think he’s done anything wrong.”
But to others who observed the proceedings in the state capital, where regulators heard days of testimony about Mr. Dowless’s work and reputation, he was all but certain to face prosecution — an outcome that Democrats and Republicans alike said seemed appropriate.
In an interview on Friday, the day after the elections board ordered a new vote, the prosecutor overseeing the criminal inquiry said she expected a grand jury to return its first charges within a month. On Tuesday, the grand jurors acted, but the indictments remained under seal until Mr. Dowless, 63, was arrested.
“What has been challenging about this case and this investigation is that, as has been widely reported, certain activity has gone on for years,” the prosecutor, Lorrin Freeman, said last week. “The more interviews you do, the more interviews you have to do.”
Ms. Freeman, who is the Wake County district attorney and began investigating Mr. Dowless’s activities in Bladen County after the local prosecutor recused himself, said on Wednesday that Mr. Dowless had been arrested in the morning and was taken to Raleigh for processing. Mr. Dowless’s secured bond was set at $30,000, and he was ordered to avoid contact with anyone who was identified in the indictments.
Four other people were also indicted and face charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice and of illegally possessing absentee ballots. One of the four was also accused of falsely signing the voter certification on an absentee ballot.
Prosecutors could eventually seek additional charges against Mr. Dowless or his associates, especially in connection with the 2018 general election. The federal authorities have not said whether they are investigating Mr. Dowless.
Mr. Dowless has some familiarity with the criminal justice system, and his record includes felony convictions for perjury and fraud. But his background did not keep him from working for Mr. Harris, as well as other Democratic and Republican politicians who were seeking office in southeastern North Carolina.
[Read: Inside a Fly-by-Night Operation to Harvest Ballots in North Carolina]
There, Mr. Dowless built a reputation as a savvy organizer of effective absentee ballot efforts that, at least sometimes, seemed to rely on criminal conduct and a network of workers with little legal knowledge but a need for quick cash. In 2017, just months after Mr. Dowless worked for one of Mr. Harris’s rivals during a campaign for Congress, Mr. Harris hired him for his 2018 House bid. In doing so, Mr. Harris ignored the misgivings of one of his sons, who memorialized his concerns in an email that became public last week.
“The key thing that I am fairly certain they do that is illegal is that they collected the completed absentee ballots and mail them all at once,” John Harris wrote to his father in 2017.
Mark Harris repeatedly denied that he knew of any wrongdoing by Mr. Dowless or his associates, which his campaign spent tens of thousands of dollars to underwrite. Indeed, he insisted that Mr. Dowless had explicitly assured him that his effort would involve nothing improper. But Mr. Harris, who appeared to mislead investigators during his testimony, ultimately decided last Thursday that he would support a new election.
State officials are expected to meet on Monday to set a schedule for the new election, which will include a primary and be conducted as if a member of Congress had died or resigned. Mr. McCready, last year’s Democratic candidate, said on Friday that he would enter the race. On Tuesday, Mr. Harris cited his health and announced that he would not be a candidate.
Ethan Hawke is the best thing about “Stockholm,” but the moment he strides into a bank things begin going haywire. With strained comedy, unearned sobriety and Bob Dylan on the soundtrack, the movie revisits the 1973 Swedish robbery that inspired the coinage Stockholm syndrome. That term is often used when hostages — or victims of any kind, including of relationships and of long novels — develop an identification with their captors. Hawke plays Lars, the robbery’s would-be mastermind, who appears too ridiculous to be persuasively dangerous but who is also meant to be somehow irresistible.
That Lars may not be up to the convoluted operation that he has set for himself is evident from his get-up, which looks straight out of “Easy Rider” (1969). “I’m the outlaw,” Lars announces to himself, making the movie’s audience his mirror. His black motorcycle jacket and pants evoke Peter Fonda’s cool cat from “Easy Rider,” but his cowboy hat and comical Little Lord Fauntleroy wig suggest that he is also tapping into his inner Dennis Hopper, Fonda’s more demonstrably zonked-out co-star. Lars’s enthusiasm for the Steve McQueen action classic “Bullitt” (1968) further suggests that he’s playing a role (or aspiring to one), but, for the viewer, also perilously evokes other, livelier movies.
Drowsy in feel and muted in color, “Stockholm” is lightly amusing and watchable — mostly thanks to Hawke — but never makes the case that this is a story that needed to be told, with or without laughs. Once Lars hits the bank, an incursion executed with gun waving and mouth flapping, he takes hostages, including two employees, Bianca (Noomi Rapace) and Klara (Bea Santos). In time, the police and Lars begin talking and negotiating. Lars wants his pal, Gunnar (Mark Strong), released from prison. And so Gunnar joins the fray, as does a third hostage. Together, robbers and hostages hunker down and, as grimaces turn to smiles, form a shaky, unconvincing connection that’s reinforced by the ineptitude of the police and apparent callousness of the prime minister.
Stockholm syndrome seems more widely diagnosed in journalism and in pop culture than in medical offices, and is perhaps still most associated with Patty Hearst, whose defense lawyers argued that the heiress hostage turned accused bank robber had gone along with her captors because she was under duress. The jury didn’t buy it, and Hearst was convicted (and later pardoned); the American Psychiatric Association seems similarly skeptical and doesn’t officially recognize the syndrome. It’s unclear what the writer-director Robert Budreau thinks of it, although given the attention he bestows on Lars — in camera love and in the dialogue — he seems to think raffish charisma explains a lot.
He gets a great deal of help from Hawke, who takes hold of the movie from his first scene to last. Once Lars starts shedding his disguise, a clearer picture of him and his desires emerges. He sweetly hangs onto the increasingly skeptical Gunnar while also creating an implausible bond with Bianca, who remains a sketch at best. Lars’s manic energy starts to look a lot like vulnerability; his febrile charm feels like the real thing. By the time he is staring soulfully at Bianca — Hawke widens his eyes and drains his face of its earlier warring emotions, leaving a look of childlike, near-saintly awe — it’s hard not to wonder if this is a movie about Stockholm syndrome or an advertisement for it.
A prominent lawyer with a major New York law firm said on Friday that he intended to plead guilty to criminal charges arising from the college admissions cheating scandal.
Gordon Caplan, who had been co-chairman of the firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher, was charged with conspiracy to commit mail fraud after he allegedly paid $75,000 to make sure his daughter got a good score on a college-admissions exam.
“I take full and sole responsibility for my conduct, and I am deeply ashamed of my behavior and my actions,” Mr. Caplan said in a statement. “I apologize not only to my family, friends, colleagues and the legal bar, but also to students everywhere who have been accepted to college through their own hard work.”
Mr. Caplan was suspended last month as co-chairman of Willkie Farr.
The law firm said Friday that Mr. Caplan was no longer a partner there in light of his decision to plead guilty.
The criminal complaint against Mr. Caplan included recorded conversations in which he discussed plans to have a professional take the exam for his daughter, who he thought would not get a score high enough to gain admission to an elite school.
In the conversations, with William Rick Singer, the California college admissions consultant who was the mastermind of the college admissions cheating scheme, Mr. Caplan repeatedly asked a number of times about the possibility of getting caught. He apparently did not realize that his conversations were being recorded by Mr. Singer, who was cooperating with federal authorities.
Mr. Caplan said his daughter had known nothing about his plans. She has yet to apply to college, he said, and “has been devastated to learn what I did and has been hurt the most by it.”
It wasn’t clear from Friday’s statement what charges Mr. Caplan plans to plead guilty to. His lawyers declined to comment beyond the statement. If he pleads guilty to a felony, he will face automatic disbarment in New York.
The coaches led soccer teams and sailing teams, guided water polo champions and budding volleyball stars. At least two had won N.C.A.A. championships. A third gave Michelle Obama and her daughters tennis lessons from his post at Georgetown. 
The coaches charged Tuesday in a massive federal college admissions fraud scandal were some of the most prominent in their fields. But it was their apparent willingness to exploit their access to the admissions process at several exclusive universities that has them facing federal charges. 
Who are they? Several had deep associations with the University of Southern California, where Donna Heinel, a senior athletic department administrator, is accused of playing a central role in the scandal. For nearly a decade, Heinel had overseen the admissions of athletes into U.S.C., working closely with several of the current and former Trojans coaches who have been indicted. She was fired Tuesday.
Here is a brief look at the current and former coaches identified by a federal complaint.
U.S.C. water polo coach
Vavic won 16 national titles at U.S.C., more than any coach in university history (10 in men’s water polo, the most recent coming in December, and six in women’s water polo). He was fired Tuesday after he was arrested in connection with the admissions scheme. He had coached the women’s team, currently ranked No. 1 and the defending national champion, since 1995 and had been the sole head coach of the men’s team since 1999. A 15-time national coach of the year, Vavic was named the Pac-12 Conference’s “coach of the century” for water polo in 2015. 
According to the indictment, the co-conspirators in the admissions fraud paid $250,000 to an account that financed the U.S.C. water polo program, and in return Vavic recommended two students as recruits to the water polo team. The ringleader of the scheme, William Singer, known as Rick, is said to have paid the private school tuition for Vavic’s children through one of his company’s charitable accounts “under the guise of a fabricated scholarship.”
Former Georgetown tennis coach
According to the indictment, Ernst, known as Gordie, earned more than $2.7 million between 2012 and 2018 in payments that were falsely labeled “consulting” fees. He “designated at least 12 applicants as recruits” for Georgetown’s tennis teams, court papers said, “including some who did not play competitively.” One such player, listed in the complaint, was encouraged to make playing tennis part of her application essay and claimed to be a top-50-ranking player in the U.S.T.A. for junior girls, which was not true. She was accepted at Georgetown in 2016. 
A spokeswoman for Georgetown said Tuesday that the university had fired Ernst in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. Ernst, a native of Rhode Island who is in the New England Sports Hall of Fame, was named the women’s tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last August. The university placed him on administrative leave on Tuesday. 
Wake Forest volleyball coach
Ferguson has been the women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest since 2016. Before that, he coached the men’s team at U.S.C., winning 150 matches and leading the Trojans to three N.C.A.A. Final Fours. He was the American Volleyball Coaches Association coach of the year in 2009 and 2012. His success has not continued at Wake Forest, where he was 22-41 in his first two seasons. After Tuesday’s charges were unsealed, Wake Forest announced that he has been placed on administrative leave. Ferguson is accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2017 to help Singer’s client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance to Wake Forest as a volleyball recruit.
 U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coach
Salcedo has been U.C.L.A.’s men’s soccer coach since 2004. The Bruins are one of the nation’s top programs annually, and Salcedo has produced dozens of players who have gone on to play professional soccer. A former All-American at U.C.L.A. who had a brief career in Major League Soccer and other leagues, he has been a member of the Bruins’ soccer program as either a player, assistant coach or head coach for two decades. He is accused of helping two students gain admission to U.C.L.A. as student-athletes in exchange for $200,000. The Los Angeles Times and others reported that he had been placed on leave Tuesday.
Former U.S.C. women’s soccer coaches
Khosroshahin won a national championship in his first season with the Trojans in 2007, when he was named national coach of the year, but he was fired in 2013 after missing the N.C.A.A. tournament three years in a row. U.S.C. went 8-10-2 in his final season; he was 82-53-15 over all. 
Janke joined Khosroshahin’s U.S.C. coaching staff as an assistant after playing for him in his previous job at Cal State-Fullerton. A biography of her at the Geffen Academy, a private school in Los Angeles for students in grades 6 through 12, lists her as the physical education department chair. A previous announcement hailed her hiring as the head of the school’s girls soccer program. 
In the indictment, Singer is said to have contributed $350,000 a private soccer club run by Khosroshahin and Janke in exchange for their suggesting four children of Singer’s clients as recruits. 
Khosroshahin and Janke were also asked to create misleading recruiting profiles and to serve as references for students who were not competitive soccer players in order to help them gain admission to other colleges. 
Former Yale women’s soccer coach
A third cooperating witness in court papers was an unnamed person whose description closely matches Meredith, who served as Yale’s women’s soccer coach from 1995 through late last year. Meredith was also a participant in the scheme, according to court filings. Meredith resigned as Yale’s coach in November after a disappointing season, but also after, the authorities said Tuesday, he had accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars of payments to facilitate the admission of a non-soccer-playing soccer recruit to Yale. When he stepped down after last season, Meredith told the university that “it is time to explore new possibilities and begin a different chapter in my life.” A month later, he was elected to the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame. 
Stanford sailing coach
Vandemoer is accused of taking financial contributions to his championship-winning sailing program from an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission. “Neither student came to Stanford,” Stanford said in a statement Tuesday. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.” Stanford said Vandemoer had been fired.
Texas men’s tennis coach
The Longhorns have one of the top programs in the country, having reached the N.C.A.A. tournament every season since Center took over in 2000. He was placed on administrative leave Tuesday after being accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2015 in exchange for recruiting a student who was not a competitive tennis player. According to court papers, the student’s application to Texas said he played one year of tennis as a freshman, but his other activities included being manager of his high school basketball and football teams. The student withdrew from the tennis team shortly after beginning classes at Texas. 
TULSA, Okla. — Police in Tulsa have arrested a man who they say stole an empty school bus and took it for a joyride.
Police say the Tulsa Public Schools bus was stolen early Monday when the driver went into a gas station and left the bus running. The Tulsa World reports a man told officers he decided to steal the bus after seeing an anti-texting-and-driving sign on the bus that said, "drop it and drive."
Police say the man told officers that he "dropped what he was doing" and drove off in the bus.
The man later radioed dispatch to tell him where he would leave the bus. Police arrested him on complaints of auto theft and driving without a license.
MOSCOW — The American founder of one of the oldest and largest Russia-focused private equity firms was detained on fraud charges in Moscow on Friday in a case that jolted the country’s business community.
The founder of Baring Vostok, Michael Calvey, appeared in a Moscow court along with three of his partners and two other associates. Mr. Calvey, 51, was ordered held for three days, and his formal arraignment was scheduled for Saturday, the Russian news agency Interfax reported. The five others were put under arrest for two months.
If found guilty, they could face up to 10 years in prison, the court said.
A state investigator said Mr. Calvey and other executives at his fund were suspected of embezzling 2.5 billion rubles ($37.48 million) by persuading shareholders in a Russian bank to accept a stake in another firm at an inflated price, according to news reports.
Speaking to the court through his lawyer, Mr. Calvey denied his involvement in any fraud scheme and offered his full cooperation. He said the case against him had been prompted by a corporate conflict within a bank Baring Vostok holds a stake in, Interfax reported.
The detentions occurred as Russia was hosting a major investment forum in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi. The sometimes-erratic actions of the country’s law enforcement agencies have often been cited by analysts as a major hurdle for greater foreign investment into Russia’s sluggish economy.
The case against Mr. Calvey and his partners — including the Baring Vostok executive Phillipe Delpal, a French national — was brought up by a minor shareholder of Vostochny Bank, Interfax reported.
Baring Vostok and another private equity firm share a majority stake in Vostochny, one of the top 50 Russian lenders. In 2017, Vostochny’s stakeholders fought over who would manage the bank, according to court records.
The court was told that Mr. Calvey and his associates earned more than $37 million by making the bank buy another company at an inflated price. Aleksei Kordichev, one of the detainees and the chairman of Vostochny from 2015 to 2017, testified against Mr. Calvey and was willing to cooperate with the investigators, his lawyer told Interfax.
Mr. Calvey founded Moscow-based Baring Vostok in 1994, developing it into a leader in private equity in Russia and the former Soviet Union. The company manages more than $3.7 billion, according to its website. Since its founding, the firm has invested more than $2.8 billion in 80 companies across the region, and it employs 40 in Moscow.
Unlike other investment funds that traditionally focus on natural resources, Baring Vostok’s portfolio mostly consisted of investments in Russia’s internet, telecommunication and financial sectors. In 2000, the firm invested heavily in Yandex, which later grew into Russia’s internationally recognized internet giant.
Some Russian business leaders said they would vouch for Mr. Calvey. Kirill Dmitriev, the head of Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, said Mr. Calvey and his team were highly professional and committed to ethical standards, Interfax reported.
But Anton Siluanov, the country’s finance minister, told journalists that “no one should violate the law.”
“If the law was violated, then there should be no leniency,” Mr. Siluanov said, according to Interfax. “Be it a foreigner, a Russian, there is no difference.”
Bill Browder, who founded Hermitage Capital, another large private-equity firm in Russia, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Calvey’s detention “should be the final straw that Russia is an entirely corrupt and uninvestable country.”
Mr. Browder was ousted from Russia in 2005 and then sentenced in absentia to nine years in prison by a Russian court. In 2009, his tax accountant Sergei Magnitsky died in a Russian jail, prompting Mr. Browder to undertake an international campaign to fight corruption and human rights violations by high-ranking Russian officials.
“Of all the people I knew in Moscow, Mike played by their rules, kept his head down and never criticized the government,” said Mr. Browder.
WAILUKU, Hawaii — Two inmates escaped from a Hawaii jail and over a razor wire-topped fence, prompting a manhunt across the island of Maui before one of them turned himself in and the other was arrested.
Troy Diego and Barret Paman escaped from the Maui Community Correctional Center early Sunday, authorities said. Staff members had noticed a broken door in the back of a dorm building.
The facility went into a lockdown and staff members found clothing in the razor wire at the top of a perimeter fence, authorities said.
Paman, awaiting trial on burglary, theft and firearms charges, turned himself in to Maui police Sunday afternoon.
Maui police arrested Diego on Monday afternoon. Police didn't immediately provide details about the arrest. He's awaiting trial on charges of theft and unauthorized entry into a vehicle.
Both men were being held under the lowest level of custody, said Toni Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Public Safety. They will face an added escape charge, she said.
The chain-link fence section they are believed to have climbed over is 16 feet (5 meters) high, including the double row of razor wire at the top, Schwartz said.
Maui Mayor Michael Victorino urged everyone to "stay calm but remain vigilant" during the island-wide manhunt. He said after Diego's arrest that "Maui residents can rest easy tonight."
The escapes come after a riot at the jail last month. The jail was designed to hold 301 inmates but had 410 at the time of the disturbance. State corrections officials say inmates were upset with extreme overcrowding.
___
This story has been corrected to show the escape occurred early Sunday, not in the afternoon.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
The Senate and the House are set to vote today on a bipartisan spending measure that would allocate $1.38 billion for fencing along the southwestern border — less than what they offered last year and far short of the $5.7 billion President Trump had requested.
It is perhaps the most punishing defeat Mr. Trump has experienced as president, especially in light of the negotiating prowess he touted while campaigning, our correspondents wrote in a news analysis: “In pursuit of a wall, President Trump ran into one.”
The Senate convenes at 10 a.m. Eastern.
Voices: “We shut down the government for 35 days, we put America through this crisis, we jeopardized our economy — for what?” said Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, a Democrat, who was part of the committee that negotiated the budget deal. “Totally unnecessary.”
President Trump’s former campaign chairman breached a plea agreement by lying multiple times to prosecutors, a federal judge decided on Wednesday. Mr. Manafort pledged in September to cooperate with the special counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.
The judge said Mr. Manafort had lied about his contacts with a Russian associate during the campaign and after the election. 
What’s next: The decision could lead to a harsher punishment for Mr. Manafort when he is sentenced next month on two counts of conspiracy. He also awaits sentencing for eight other counts in a related fraud case.
Government officials called the Air Force counterintelligence agent “Wayward Storm,” but her real name was Monica Elfriede Witt. In an indictment made public on Wednesday, she was charged with two counts of espionage and other crimes after prosecutors said she had defected to Iran to help target her former American colleagues. 
The case is among several in recent years in which foreign countries tried to recruit former American military or intelligence officials.
Background: Why Ms. Witt became disillusioned with the U.S. government remains a mystery. She entered the Air Force in 1997 but left active duty in 2008. At some point, she converted to Islam, and she is believed to remain in Iran.
Related: The Trump administration has revived a secret program to sabotage Iran’s missiles and rockets.
Climate change has accelerated melting in the Alps, which has increased stream flows and filled reservoirs in the region. For Switzerland — where hydropower plants provide more than half the country’s electricity — that can be a good thing in the short term.
“Today, we benefit from glacial melting,” one Swiss executive said.
Looking ahead: In the longer term, the effect will require adaptations. When ice retreats to the point that stream flows decline and power production drops, the valleys carved by glaciers will be exposed. But those may become ideal sites to collect and store water, serving as a source for backup power.
In interviews, seven women and more than a dozen associates described a pattern of manipulative behavior in which Mr. Adams, a prolific singer-songwriter, dangled career opportunities while simultaneously pursuing female artists for sex. 
Some say he turned vengeful when they declined. He denied the allegations. 
F.B.I. investigation: The agency’s former deputy director, Andrew McCabe, ordered an inquiry in 2017 of whether President Trump had obstructed justice by firing James Comey, a new interview shows. Justice Department officials had discussed recruiting cabinet members to remove Mr. Trump from office.
School shooting anniversary: One year after 17 people were killed at a high school in Parkland, Fla., we looked at how some of the survivors became a force for gun-control legislation. 
Mars mission ends: Opportunity, the rover that explored the red planet for more than 14 years, is dead, NASA announced. We traced the robot’s 28-mile journey there.
Aid for Venezuela stalls: The country’s opposition, led by Juan Guaidó, had hoped to force a confrontation with President Nicolás Maduro by bringing food and medical donations into the country. But the government has blocked the aid at the border with Colombia.
Extended power in Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved measures today that would allow President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to continue in office until 2034. The vote further entrenches Mr. el-Sisi’s authoritarian rule and enshrines the military’s dominance over the country.
A rebuke to Trump: The House has voted to end military support for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, a rare move to limit presidential war powers. A similar resolution that the Senate passed in December died in the last Congress after the Republican House leadership blocked a vote.
FEMA resignation: Brock Long, the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, has resigned after two years. During his tenure, the agency was praised for its response to Hurricane Harvey but sharply criticized for its handling of Hurricane Maria’s devastation in Puerto Rico.
Philippine journalist’s arrest: Maria Ressa, the co-founder of an online news site critical of President Rodrigo Duterte, was released on bail today after being arrested in a libel case she said was politically motivated.
Snapshot: Above, a young female black panther in the Laikipia Wilderness Camp in Kenya, the first documented sighting of such an animal in Africa in about 100 years.
In memoriam: Lyndon LaRouche, a political cult figure, ran for president eight times, including once from a prison cell. He died on Tuesday at 96.
Overlooked obituaries: For Black History Month, our Overlooked series is focusing on prominent black men and women who didn’t receive obituaries in The Times when they died. The latest is Dudley Randall, a librarian who started the Broadside Press out of his home in Detroit in the 1960s, giving voice to nearly 200 black poets.
Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert was unhappy with Washington and the deal to prevent a government shutdown: “Where’s the infrastructure bill? Where’s the immigration bill? Where’s the fix on health care? We are celebrating — or supposed to be celebrating — that they’re close to a deal to achieve the absolute minimum: having a government!” 
What we’re reading: This essay by a veteran BBC reporter. Steven Erlanger, The Times’s chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe, writes: “Nick Bryant argues cogently that the impeachment of President Clinton over the Monica Lewinsky affair made it easier for Donald Trump to become president and much harder for his wife, Hillary.” 
Cook: Make Valentine’s Day special with a chocolate lava cake for two.
Listen: The track “Gun Powder” provides more cheerily melodic tragedy from the Savannah, Ga., rapper Quando Rondo, Jon Caramanica writes.
See: In the Met Opera’s production of “La Fille du Régiment,” Javier Camarena sings a string of nine high C’s as part of a joyous aria. There’s a chance the audience will burst into spontaneous applause.
Read: “On the Come Up,” the latest from Angie Thomas, debuts at No. 1 on our young adult hardcover best-seller list. Her book “The Hate U Give” has spent 102 weeks on the list and is currently ranked No. 2. 
Smarter Living: Should you take that promotion? Don’t automatically say yes. Take a step back to analyze the offer and the doors it could open. But also review if you have the skills to do the job well, whether the timing is right and whether you’ll be hit with increased pressure, longer work hours or travel commitments. You might be better off saying no.
We also explain the benefits of winter tires.
For Valentine’s Day, we have a special display of affection.
Julia Child and her husband, Paul, sent Valentine’s Day cards to their friends every year. Your Back Story writer’s grandparents were the recipients of some of those handmade notes.
But one encounter with the couple left much to be desired.
My grandfather was on a Fulbright scholarship in Oslo in 1960 when he met Mr. Child, who was stationed there. One night, he returned from the Childs’ home raving about an extraordinary dish — quiche.
My grandmother waited impatiently for a chance to try a bite. But when an invitation finally came, Mrs. Child served a tray of reindeer salami, not quiche. My grandmother still feels the letdown.
Mrs. Child went on to publish “Mastering the Art of French Cooking” and corresponded with my grandparents occasionally, most notably on Valentine’s Day. (Here are two of their Valentines.)
As for the salami? “I do not recommend it,” my grandmother said.
BRATISLAVA — A man charged with the murder of Slovak investigative journalist Jan Kuciak has confessed to shooting him, Slovak independent public television RTVS said on Thursday, quoting police sources.
The killing last year of Kuciak, who covered corruption, and his fiancée Martina Kusnirova sparked massive protests that led to the resignation of prime minister Robert Fico.
RTVS reported on its Facebook page that police sources said a former soldier identified only as Miroslav M. had confessed earlier that day during five hours of questioning by the police.
Daily Dennik N and website aktuality.sk, where Kuciak had reported on fraud cases involving politically connected businessmen before he was found shot dead at home with his fiancée in February 2018, each quoted their own police source as saying the same thing. 
Both news outlets identified the man as Miroslav Marcek.
The reported confession indicated that a second person among five people charged in the murder and who are in custody was cooperating with the police in the high profile case.
Slovakia's special prosecutor's office, which oversees the case, told RTVS that it would not comment on an active case. 
Police arrested four people last September. Prosecutors said they believed Marcek to have acted as a driver for a shooter, his cousin and ex-policeman Tomas Szabo.
A woman identified by Slovak media as Alena Zsuzsova was charged with ordering Kuciak's killing while Zoltan Andrusko was charged with facilitating it.
In March, Marian Kocner, a businessman and acquaintance of Zsuzsova, was also charged with ordering the murder. Kocner and Zsuzsova deny any wrongdoing.
A few months before he was killed, Kuciak told police that Kocner, a subject of his reportage, had threatened to start collecting information on him and his family. Police pressed no charges.
Public distrust in Slovak political leaders has kept attention fixed on any signs that Kuciak's murder was linked to ruling circles.
Two deputy general prosecutors have been forced to resign under pressure since January over their contacts with Kocner.
The killing was also a big factor in a presidential election last month in which liberal political novice Zuzana Caputova defeated the ruling party's candidate. 
 (Reporting by Tatiana Jancarikova; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
Federal officials said Tuesday that they had dismantled a $1.2 billion Medicare scheme that spanned continents and ensnared hundreds of thousands of unsuspecting elderly and disabled patients.
Under the scheme, which the authorities described as one of the largest health care frauds in United States history, doctors prescribed back, shoulder, wrist and knee braces that were not needed, prosecutors said. Twenty-four people were charged, according to the Justice Department.
“These defendants — who range from corporate executives to medical professionals — allegedly participated in an expansive and sophisticated fraud to exploit telemedicine technology meant for patients otherwise unable to access health care,” Brian Benczkowski, the assistant attorney general for the department’s criminal division, said in a statement.
Some of the accused were owners of durable medical equipment companies that paid kickbacks and bribes to doctors to write prescriptions for braces that were medically unnecessary, according to the authorities.
An international telemarketing network with call centers in the Philippines and Latin America would reach out to Medicare beneficiaries, persuading them to get the free or low-cost braces. The doctors would sometimes write prescriptions without speaking to the patient.
“The defendants took advantage of unwitting patients who were simply trying to get relief from their health concerns,” Craig Carpenito, the United States attorney for New Jersey, said in a statement. “Instead, the defendants preyed upon their weakened state and pushed millions of dollars’ worth of unnecessary medical devices, which Medicare paid for, and then set up an elaborate system for laundering their ill-gotten proceeds.”
The defendants laundered the proceeds through international shell companies and used the money to buy exotic cars, yachts and luxury real estate around the world, the authorities said.
Prosecutors brought charges related to the payment of bribes, illegal kickbacks, money laundering and conspiracy to commit health care fraud against people in California, Florida, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas.
The individuals charged included the chief executives or employees of five telemedicine companies, the owners of dozens of durable medical equipment companies and three licensed medical professionals, the Justice Department said.
In Florida, Willie McNeal IV, the owner and chief executive of two telemedicine companies, hired health care providers and then paid them to prescribe braces for Medicare beneficiaries regardless of whether it was medically necessary, according to an indictment. Mr. McNeal would then receive illegal kickbacks in exchange for ordering those braces, the indictment said.
Mr. McNeal, 42, facilitated the submission of fraudulent Medicare claims worth nearly $250 million, the government said. If convicted, the government demanded that Mr. McNeal forfeit the profits obtained from the illegal kickbacks and any property that was purchased with those proceeds, including 10 properties in Florida.
John Lauro, a lawyer representing Mr. McNeal, said in a phone interview on Tuesday that he could not comment on the specifics of the allegations but that he was disappointed by the Justice Department’s decision to arrest Mr. McNeal with “no advance warning” or opportunity to explain himself.
“They simply arrested without asking any questions or giving the client the opportunity to talk about the telemedicine business model,” Mr. Lauro said.
In a case out of South Carolina, more than a dozen companies owned by Andrew Chmiel, 43, billed Medicare for more than $200 million as part of a scheme to sell medically unnecessary equipment, according to an indictment. The indictment listed three properties, six cars and nearly two dozen bank accounts as subject to forfeiture if Mr. Chmiel is convicted.
