Que faire pour faire face au stress ? Voici quelques suggestions…
Voici un article du site Lanutrition.fr sur le stress. Cliquez ici pour le lire.
Vous avez d’autres idées ? Laissez un commentaire.
Commentaire
 Notifiez-moi des commentaires à venir via émail. Vous pouvez aussi vous abonner sans commenter.
 



Comments links could be nofollow free.









Am inlocuit guta elastica fragila cu snur din nailon gutat. Am pus si bilute intre noduri sa fie usor de reglat.
Rame decupate din lemn, cu coltare pentru poze si magnetei, numai bune de pus amintirile pe frigider.
Cu margele din silicon alimentar si snur de nailon rezistent chiar si la dintisorii noi aparuti.
Pe motiv ca nu mai am vocale la margelele din acest tip.
Pentru o prietena si prietena prietenei.
Am reparat un colier care a avut la viata lui patru randuri de margele. A ramas doar cu trei.
Margele colorate si margele din lava innodate strasnic cu snur de nailon cerat.
Intotdeauna incerc noile modele de bratari pe sormea.  Accesoriul si bilutele sunt din argint marcat 925.
Daca aveti la voi vreo bratara cu snur rosu deteriorata si ma vedeti pe strada, nu ezitati sa ma abordati. Am trusa de urgente bratari la mine. Ma recunoasteti dupa sapca roz cu licurici si trotineta electrica. Pisica e ajutorul meu de nadejde.
Sunt disponibile albinute din argint marcat 925. Vreo 15.
Introdu adresa ta de email


							Email Address                        


Forgot password?
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports, research and invitation only events.
India's outsourcing industry faces a shake up in the wake of the £1 billion Satyam fraud scandal, but remains "one of the safest places to outsource" predicts Wipro.
Pascal Matzke, vice president at analyst house Forrester Research, said Indian offshorers were facing an increasingly difficult battle to retain customers. "The Indian value proposition is being lost," he said. "First they offered the low cost, then the quality - both valid arguments - but now the European and American firms are more level in terms of resource."
The Satyam scandal would have a serious impact on all Indian outsourcers, he said. "Customers want a higher degree of transparency, they are demanding explanations on how their suppliers are making money. Some vendors are even giving customers leaflets explaining their financial position."
In order to show transparency, Indian outsourcers are also "more readily taking on risk in projects, accepting more risk/reward mechanisms," Matzke added.
Yet Wipro remains confident in the robustness of the Indian outsourcing industry, even after large US firms such as IBM and Accenture have been touted as offering a real alternative on cost and capability. "There are 350,000 engineering graduates every year in India, and we're getting the best ones," said Strawser. "In the US, there are 40,000."
But Wipro itself has not avoided controversy. Close on the heels of the Satyam fiasco, it emerged that Wipro had been barred from direct contracts from the World Bank, after family and friends of the bank's CIO and other senior executives purchased Wipro shares under a programme set up by the company.
Wipro has rigorously denied charges levelled by the World Bank that it provided improper benefits to the bank staff. During its earnings report, the company said that the number of shares offered by the company were too few to amount to an inducement, and were "a goodwill gesture". Its business from the World Bank to date is "insignificant". Strawser declined to comment further.
Wipro said it has no plans to take over scandal-hit Satyam Computers, and, unlike some of its rivals, it was "not proactively going after" Satyam clients, Strawser claimed.

Sign up to gain exclusive access to email subscriptions, event invitations, competitions, giveaways, and much more.
Membership is free, and your security and privacy remain protected. View our privacy policy before signing up.

        Tags fraudSatyamwipro

Copyright 2019 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — Eight Republican lawmakers have asked for Kentucky’s GOP House speaker to be removed from office after he secretly settled a sexual harassment complaint with a female legislative aide.
The formal disciplinary charges filed Wednesday against Jeff Hoover include sexual harassment, creating a hostile work environment and using taxpayer resources to hide the allegations from the public.
Hoover’s actions, the lawmakers allege, “violated statute, brought great harm to the body’s ability to conduct the people’s business, and irreparably damaged the reputation of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.”
“Upon finding these charges to be true, we respectfully ask the committee to recommend the expulsion of (Hoover) from the House of Representatives,” the lawmakers wrote in the complaint.
Hoover has denied sexual harassment, but said he sent inappropriate yet consensual text messages to a woman who once worked for the House Republican Caucus.
Hoover told The Associated Press he believes the complaint is motivated by politics. It was signed by Republican Rep. Phil Moffett, who Hoover said has “wanted to be speaker since he got here.”
“He has been working with this small group of legislators and the executive branch for weeks in their collective effort to harm me,” Hoover said. “So, I’m not surprised. They can’t touch my faith, and my family and lots of friends still support me, and they will not take away my joy.”
Moffett declined to respond to Hoover’s comments, but said “we have a duty and a responsibility to discipline our members.”
“We can’t allow cover-ups and sexual harassment and hostile work environments and things like that to happen. It’s absolutely unacceptable,” he said.
In November, Hoover appeared to be one of dozens of powerful men across the country toppled by allegations of sexual harassment or abuse. He announced he would resign as speaker but keep his seat in the legislature. But Tuesday, Hoover said he was only temporarily stepping aside as speaker “until further notice,” leaving open the possibility he could return to power.
The settlement signed by Hoover and three other Republican lawmakers was handled outside of court and paid for with private money to avoid publicity. But the Courier Journal exposed the settlement, creating an uproar in a state that was transitioning to Republican rule after decades of dominance by Democrats.
The complaint was signed by Moffett and fellow Republican state Reps. Addia Wuchner, Kim King, Russell Webber, Stan Lee, Robert Benvenuti, Tim Moore and Joe Fischer. It says Hoover sent text messages to the woman requesting photos of her in a “black lace g string,” saying they were “for my eyes only” and promising to delete them.
It also says Hoover created a hostile work environment by using his office to “conduct interviews and intimidate witnesses (who) had knowledge of his illicit relationship.”
The complaint was filed under new House rules adopted Tuesday, which require a special committee of three Republicans and three Democrats to investigate. Republican Rep. Jerry Miller, as chairman of the State Government Committee, will chair the special committee and will only vote to break a tie.
“It’s not my intention to drag it on a day longer than it has to,” Miller said.
House Republican Caucus spokeswoman Daisy Olivo has filed a lawsuit claiming Hoover and the woman involved in the settlement had “physical, sexual encounters” and that he used money from prominent political donors to pay for the settlement. But the woman, through her attorney, said none of that was true. Hoover has also denied having a sexual relationship with the woman.
Hoover and the other Republican lawmakers who signed the settlement say a confidentiality clause prevents them from discussing it publicly. House GOP leaders have asked the Legislative Ethics Commission to use its subpoena power to determine if lawmakers used money from political donors or registered lobbyists to pay the settlement, which could violate state law.
Republican Gov. Matt Bevin has publicly urged Hoover to give up his position as speaker and his seat in the legislature. Bevin told a WKYX radio on Tuesday he still expects Hoover to resign this week.
“Well he’s very misinformed, but beyond that I’m not going to say anything,” Hoover said.
A spokeswoman for Bevin did not respond to an email seeking comment.

Login | 
			Register | 
			Language / Select language |
			About |
			Blog
Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum

Hudson Reporter Archive
Our Digital Archive from 2000 – 2016
Internet, mail, phone, and door-to-door scammers are all around, trying to con people out of their money. They may tell a victim that they have their family members in custody, or say that if the victim gives them a few bucks, they can collect a million dollar reward.
According to the Anti-Fraud Toolkit presented by the New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs (DCA) at the Secaucus Senior Center on Dec. 7, these scammers frequently target people 60 and older. That’s because seniors own a home and have good credit, and are less likely to report fraud._____________“This is an important time to learn about fraud, because all scams are going on during the holidays.” – Steve Lee____________Steve Lee, director of the state DCA, gave the free presentation for all residents of Hudson County.
During the presentation he said, “This is an important time to learn about fraud, because all scams are going on during the holidays.”
According to the DCA’s website, www.fightingfraud.nj.gov, seniors don’t report fraud when it happens to them. “They are simply less likely to be aware of the latest scams making their way across the nation and around the state.”
After seeing the presentation, resident Makundual Desai said, “No one in my family has been scammed. I learned a lot. I thought it was good.”
Friends Carole McLeod and Wedad Youseff came from Jersey City to learn more.
“Fraud is preventable, and we have to be aware of our surroundings to avoid it,” Youseff said. “More and more funny things happen every year.”
McLeod added, “I agree, we have to learn more about it.”
“I’m always concerned about my safety anytime of the year, not just the holidays,” Youseff said, “but it’s meaningful to learn this during the holidays because it makes it more preventable. We have to be on our guard, and if my family ever goes through this, I can help them.”
“Education is key,” Lee said during the presentation. “We want to make sure all of you have what you need to fight fraud.”
Secaucus Director of Senior and Community Services Lisa Snedeker said to the seniors, “We want to keep you as informed as possible on fraud and scam.” She said that she and her mother had both fallen victim to scams. 
Learning the tricks
The Anti-Fraud Toolkit is filled with information about dozens of popular scam scenarios, including fraudulent immigration enforcement calls. These immigration calls involve a scammer convincing the victim to give them money to keep a family member from being deported. In one situation explained in the toolkit, the scammer refers to himself as a U.S. customs and border patrol representative.
The toolkit is also filled with important phone numbers and online contacts to report being scammed, getting unwanted sales calls, or to assure you’re donating to a legit charity, getting home improvements done by a real contractor, or to check if you’ve been a victim of identity theft.
The DCA also recommends keeping a list of suspected scam callers, and the toolkit provides a list to record the information. To read or download the full Anti-Fraud Toolkit visit www.fightingfraud.nj.gov.
 Samantha Meyers can be reached at samantham@hudsonreporter.com .

© 2000new Date().getFullYear()>2010&&document.write("-"+new Date().getFullYear());, Newspaper Media Group
A New Jersey man and his family died Tuesday as a fiery fire engulfed their $1.5 million mansion.
NBC New York reports that two adults and two children died after the fire consumed their Colts Neck, New Jersey, home. Authorities identified the victims as Keith Caneiro, 50, his wife Jennifer Caneiro, 45, and their two young children, a son and daughter.
Keith Caneiro, the CEO of a tech company Square One, was found on the lawn of the home with a fatal gunshot wound. Authorities found Jennifer Caneiro and the children inside the home, severely burned.
How do you protect your children from predators? Join Nancy Grace and a team of world-class experts for the online course ‘Justice Nation: Crime Stops Here’.
Authorities have not yet specified whether the victim’s gunshot wound was self-inflicted or caused by someone else, but his brother, identified as Paul Caneiro, has been charged with arson and accused of setting his own home on fire. Earlier that morning, Paul Caneiro’s Ocean Township home caught on fire as well, but no one was injured.
According to a criminal complaint, Paul Caneiro’s wife, Susan, and their two daughters were inside the home.
Investigators indicated the two fires were connected, according to ABC, but they declined to give further details.
Monmouth County Prosecutor Christopher Gramiccioni stated authorities will hold a press conference on Wednesday afternoon to provide additional details.

Join Nancy Grace for her new online video series designed to help you protect what you love most – your children.
[Feature Photo via AP/WABC]
Do you want to read more articles like this?
or
Skip and continue to the site
According to CNBC, Chris Giancarlo, chairman of the US CFTC, said that he is very concerned about fraud and manipulation in the field of encryption and is taking positive action. When asked if the United States is very supportive of innovation, he said that it was the United States that launched the earliest bitcoin derivatives and futures trading, as well as bitcoin options and bitcoin clearing services. “We are leading the world in this area. However, in other areas, we need to take a more deliberate approach.”
BLOCK ASIA, the one-stop media centre for all information, revelation and sources regarding the latest Blockchain, ICOs and Cryptocurrency projects.
Enter the username or e-mail you used in your profile. A password reset link will be sent to you by email.
Loading...
2017-09-22T09:57:00

22/09/2017 09h57 
O ministro da Defesa, Raul Jungmann, se reúne nesta sexta-feira (22) com a procuradora-geral da República, Raquel Dodge. O encontro está agendado para as 10h.
Responsável pela articulação dos esforços federais no combate à crise de insegurança no Rio de Janeiro, Jungmann deve falar desse assunto com a nova titular da PGR e também sobre iniciativas para enfrentar o crime organizado.
Receba dicas para investir e fazer o seu dinheiro render.
Companhias aéreas cobram até R$ 533 para o despacho de uma mala 23 kg em voos internacionais a partir do Brasil. O 
A Nasa, a agência espacial norte-americana, tem mais de 100 milhões de seguidores em oito redes sociais. A agência 
Já se perguntaram sobre a demora, eficiência e qualidade das obras públicas no Brasil? Notaram como são realizadas 
Os concursos públicos oferecem 21.267 vagas em várias regiões do país. Existem oportunidades em diversos cargos,...
Diversos modelos de aviões ao longo dos anos deixaram de voar por questões envolvendo o risco à segurança. O caso...
Este é o penúltimo fim de semana antes do fim do prazo para a entrega da declaração do Imposto de Renda 2019. Os...
A Natura anunciou que assumirá as operações da empresa The Body Shop na América Latina a partir de maio.
O presidente Jair Bolsonaro postou mensagem hoje (19), em sua conta do Twitter, sobre a reforma da Previdência. No 
Em áudio que circula pelos grupos de WhatsApp nesta sexta-feira, 19, o ministro da Casa Civil, Onyx Lorenzoni, diz 
A Administração Federal de Aviação dos Estados Unidos (FAA) informou hoje que uma revisão intergovernamental...
O número de investidores na Bolsa brasileira nunca foi tão grande. No fim de março eram 982,7 mil CPFs...
A Abranet (Associação Brasileira de Internet) divulgou nota em que "repudia a conduta do Grupo Itaú/Rede", que...
A Rede, operadora de máquinas de cartão do banco Itaú, deverá em algum momento repassar aos comerciantes outras...
BRASÍLIA (Reuters) - Vencida a resistência do presidente Jair Bolsonaro à privatização dos Correios, a equipe...
Setores da Petrobras resistem ao plano do ministro da Economia, Paulo Guedes, de abrir o mercado de gás e acabar...
A ameaça de greve dos caminhoneiros jogou holofotes na alta do preço do diesel este ano, mas a gasolina já acumula 
Deputados envolvidos nas negociações para alterar pontos da reforma da Previdência ainda na Comissão de...
O presidente Jair Bolsonaro (PSL) disse que tem "simpatia inicial" pela ideia de privatização da Petrobras. A fala 
A superintendência geral do Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica (Cade) abriu um processo para investigar...
Neste segundo episódio do programa Descomplique, a youtuber Júlia Mendonça explica como escolher o melhor tipo de...
Qual é o segredo para alcançar a riqueza? Você pode fazer essa pergunta para dez pessoas e vai receber dez...
Das 444 usinas do país, 101 ou 23% não devem moer cana-de-açúcar nesta safra, segundo levantamento da RPA...
O agronegócio calcula perdas de R$ 40 bilhões por ano com o eventual fim da Lei Kandir, que isenta de ICMS...
O gigante americano de comércio eletrônico Amazon fechará sua loja de produtos nacionais no seu portal na China...
O governo precisa melhorar a qualidade da articulação com o Congresso, na opinião de Guilherme Leal, copresidente...
Atentas a uma possível nova paralisação de caminhoneiros no país, empresas de diversos setores se preparam para...
Dados recém-divulgados pelo FMI (Fundo Monetário Internacional) mostram que o Brasil completou, em 2018, o sétimo...
O reajuste de 4,8% no preço do diesel anunciado pela Petrobras na quarta-feira (17) não foi suficiente para...
Entidade do mercado de cartões e especialistas em livre concorrência avaliam que as medidas anunciadas pela Rede,...
O Cade (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica) abriu um procedimento de investigação contra o banco Itaú e a 
A Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil (Anac) informou nesta quinta-feira que intermediou a devolução amigável de 18...
O presidente Jair Bolsonaro comentou "em tese" a possibilidade de avaliar a privatização da Petrobras, disse nesta 
O representante dos caminhoneiros Wanderlei Alves, conhecido como Dedéco, disse em entrevista ao Broadcast Agro,...
As ações da Petrobras subiram 3% e puxaram os ganhos do Ibovespa, principal índice da Bolsa brasileira. O índice...
O UOL, maior empresa brasileira de conteúdo, tecnologia, serviços e meios de pagamentos digitais, apresenta seu...
Com as mudanças que estão sendo negociadas entre líderes do centrão e o governo para que a reforma da Previdência...
RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Após concluir as negociações do contrato que rege a importante região do pré-sal...
O presidente-executivo da companhia aérea Azul, John Rodgerson, acusou hoje as rivais Gol e Latam de agirem para...
Ações de empresas de meios de pagamentos recuavam fortemente nesta quinta-feira, com Cielo respondendo pela maior...
O governo definiu em R$ 106,561 bilhões o valor que do bônus de assinatura que será pago pelas empresas vencedoras 
A Advocacia-Geral da União (AGU) enviou ao STF (Supremo Tribunal Federal) parecer contra medidas adotadas por...
Em um cenário bem diferente do visto no Brasil, as acusações de corrupção surgidas da operação Lava Jato no Peru...
O domínio “.br” completa 30 anos de ativação nesta quinta-feira, 18 de abril.  Foi nesta data, em 1989, que Jon...
Quatro meses depois de anunciar a aquisição do Grupo Abril, o empresário Fábio Carvalho, especializado em adquirir 
Em sua estreia na B3, a Centauro sofreu com a volatilidade, mas fechou em alta de 0,40% em relação ao valor da...
SÃO PAULO (Reuters) - O ministro da Economia, Paulo Guedes, afirmou que não foi "atingido" em sua autonomia no...
XANGAI (Reuters) - O índice acionário de Xangai recuou da máxima de fechamento de 13 meses e terminou em queda...
O pacote anunciado ontem pelo presidente argentino, Mauricio Macri, para tentar amenizar a crise não será...
OLATHE, Kan. (AP) — A Minnesota man has been charged with raping a 12-year-old Kansas girl who was the focus of an Amber Alert.
The Kansas City Star reports that 23-year-old Dechon Michael White, of South St. Paul, Minnesota, was booked Friday into the Johnson County, Kansas, jail, where his bond is set at $250,000.
Federal prosecutors initially charged White with kidnapping after he allegedly took a bus to Minnesota with the girl in July. She had been reported missing two days earlier in Lenexa, Kansas. The kidnapping case was dropped this summer before Kansas prosecutors filed two rape charges.
White met the girl, who is now 13, online. Prosecutors say White and the girl told the girl's mother that he was 16.
No attorney is listed for him in online court records.
 When not calling Trump supporters “Nazis” as a means to dehumanize us, the establishment media like to whine about the lack of civility in American politics, even as they cover up, ignore, downplay, or straight-up approve of the wave of violence and public harassment we are seeing against supporters of President Trump. It is open season on Trump supporters, and the media is only fomenting, encouraging, excusing, and hoping for more… The media are now openly calling Trump supporters “Nazis” and are blaming Trump for a mass murder he had nothing to do with. This, of course, is a form of harassment because it incites and justifies mob violence. Here is the list, so far, and remember that if any one of these things happened to a Democrat, the media would use the story to blot out the sun for weeks. Remember how crazy the media went over a nobody rodeo clown who wore an Obama mask, a GOP staffer who criticized Obama’s daughters? And yet, hundreds of Trump supporters are harassed and brutalized and the media only dutifully report them, if at all. That is because the media are desperate to normalize and justify violence and harassment against Trump and his supporters. And while the media openly encourage this violence against us, the media also campaign to disarm us, to take away our Second Amendment right to defend ourselves. Click here to see a list that will be updated as needed. Back=filling it will be an ongoing project… Also, click here to access a video channel dedicated to documenting the dozens and dozens of assaults against Trump supporters:
Stock no: 31183
Part no: Y-GTP27-20
Barcode: 5010559311835
This item is a spare part.


 


Chronik des Marinezug 


"Admiral Püllen"

 

Von 1999

Ein 
ganz besonderer Anlass war das Frühlingsfest 1999, hatte unser Zug doch nun zum 
letzten Mal einen Kassendienst durchzuführen. Für die meisten Mitglieder war es 
das Finale nach elf langen Jahren.


Richtig los ging es dann am Vatertag mit unserer gefürchteten Fahrradtour. Da 
wiederum eine Erftkreis-Rundfahrt geplant war, hießen die Etappenziele "Rather 
Mühle" und Niederaussem. Bei sehr schönem Wetter und guter Stimmung war unser 
Team "Püllen" erst wieder bei Anbruch der Dunkelheit im Heimathafen.


Anfang Juni fand im Garten der Familie Gottlebe das alljährliche Zugschießen 
statt. Aufgrund eines Versammlungsbeschlusses, der Ralph Creutz zum Zugkönig 
bestimmte, wurden diesmal nur die Pfänder geschossen. Anschließend entbrannte 
der Kampf um den Zugpokal, welchen Thomas Nießen souverän für sich entscheiden 
konnte. Mit einem Grillen und einem kurzen Abstecher ins Wachlokal ließ man den 
Tag dann langsam ausklingen.

Eine 
Woche später engagierte sich unser Zug wiederum beim Abenteuerspielplatz des 
Bürgervereins. In diesem Jahr wurde den Kids ein Siebenkampf, kombiniert aus 
Quiz und Spielen, geboten. Die Sache wurde glänzend angenommen und auch in 2000 
ist wieder eine Veranstaltung von Seiten des Zuges geplant.

Am 
17. Juli startete dann das erste Familienfest unseres Marinezuges. Insgesamt 
zehn Kinder konnten Preise für Dosenwerfen, Bobbycar-Rennen oder Stelzenlaufen 
in Empfang nehmen. Auch die Erwachsenen hatten bei Grillfleisch, Salaten und 
gekühlten Getränken ihren Spaß. Fortsetzung folgt....

Die 
Mitgliederversammlung vom 18. August stellte die Weichen für das bevorstehende 
Schützenfest. Der Einladung zum Umzug für Sonntag, den 12. September in 
Langst-Kierst, einem Ortsteil von Meerbusch wurde gerne entsprochen. Nach den 
Austritten von Patrick Gottlebe und Patrick Hoffmann im Laufe des Jahres, konnte 
man nun mit Dirk Gather die alte Zugstärke von 11 aktiven Marschierern 
wiederherstellen.

Das 
folgende Schützen-Fussball-Turnier verlief äußerst erfolgreich für den Marinezug 
" Admiral Püllen ". Verstärkt mit zwei Marinern vom " Kreuzer Emden " spielte 
unser Team guten Fussball und wurde mit dem 3. Platz belohnt. Zusammen mit 
unserem "Fanclub" entwickelte sich der Tag auf der Sportanlage zu einer wirklich 
"runden Sache".

Eine 
Erlebnisreise der besonderen Art sollte unsere Teilnahme am Schützenfest in 
Langst-Kierst werden. Zusammen mit Gastmarschierer Andreas Spahn und 
"Pressewart" Dirk Gather brachte unsere Abordnung insgesamt 2 Stunden Umzug ( 
mit Pause auf dem Ponyhof bei lauwarmen Diebels ) sowie 1 Stunde Parade ( mit 
Einpeitscher am Mikro ) hinter sich. Dies alles bei über 30 Grad im Schatten und 
getreu dem Motto des Starguitaristen: ...und wenn er nicht gestorben ist, dann 
stimmt er sie noch heute !!! 

Das 
Schützenfest in Frimmersdorf stellte dann wieder alles Andere in den Schatten. 
Beginnend mit der Zugkönigfete am Freitag, über den Klompenball am Montag, bis 
zum Fischessen am Mittwoch, war die Stimmung "an Bord" schlichtweg super. Die 
königliche, blau-weiße Residenz von Paul-Hubert und Ralph war Anlaufpunkt für 
beide Züge und die Versorgung durch die Familien Creutz / Pesch ließ keine 
Wünsche offen.


Höhepunkte am Freitagabend waren die Krönung "Ralph I.", die Ernennung von Olaf 
Romberg zum "Sør Søren Hølm" sowie die Gesangseinlagen unseres Marinechor "Püllen 
and Friends". 

Der 
Sonntag wurde routiniert mit dem Frühstück beim Zugkönig eröffnet und nach einem 
kleinen Brunch bei "Strick´s" ging es zum offiziellen Teil in die Erfthalle. 
Dort wurde Paul-Hubert Creutz zu seinem 40-jährigen Jubiläum mit einem 
detaillierteren Modell des Kreuzer Emden überrascht, welches Olaf Romberg 
angefertigt hatte. Desweiteren feierten Dieter Bollenbeck und Thomas Nießen das 
10-jährige Jubiläum, verbunden mit Ordensverleihung und Präsent. Außerdem wurde 
Walter Borkowski zum Leutnant befördert




Der 
Kindergartenzug am Dienstagmorgen entwickelt sich nun immer mehr zum 
Familienausflug. In diesem Jahr nahmen bereits fünf Kinder im Marine-Outfit teil 
und die "Aah´s" und "Ooh`s" der vielen Zuschauer wurden nicht ganz ohne Stolz 
vernommen.

Ein 
weiterer Höhepunkt war der Krönungsball am Abend. Unser Tisch erwies sich immer 
wieder als Anlaufpunkt und das Stimmungsbarometer zeigte Spitzenwerte an. 
Tanzeinlagen auf Tischen, Stühlen oder Parkett wechselten ab mit Stimmungs- und 
Seemannsliedern, vorgetragen durch unseren Marinechor "Püllen and Friends".

Das 
abschließende Fischessen war ein schöner Ausklang eines tollen Festes. Die 
verschiedenen Fischplatten, mitsamt Soßen, die Würstchen für unsere Kleinen; 
einfach alles perfekt. Noch lange wurden Anekdoten ausgetauscht und die 
Kirmestage noch einmal erzählt.

 zurück

Home  |  FCC Public File  |  EEO  |  Employment Opportunities  |  Advertising Information  |  Contact Us

The Drape Back Tunic is the simplest of patterns with the most stylish outcome.  It's a one-piece pattern with one size only and very clear markings to alter the generous fit of this tunic.  Cut in a jersey I easily fit this little gem on my size 20 dummy in the workroom.  And at the same time I wear my own jersey tunics regularly with skinny jeans, leggings or a pencil skirt.  This PDF has one size only with a 1 Pair cut for the complete garment and some volume and length alteration instructions included in the pattern.  You'll be able to moderate the amount of fullness in your garment according to your own taste.  You can checkout the Pattern Puzzle post about this design on the blog:

Available here as a PDF download to be printed as A0 at your local print shop. And for my U.S. followers this A0 format will fit in a 36" plotter print.
More of the Pattern Puzzle designs are being developed into sewing patterns as we speak so make sure you are subscribed to receive my newsletter to be the first to hear.
THIS PRODUCT IS FOR PERSONAL AND HOME USE ONLY.  For education and commercial use please email me direct.
This drape back tunic is best cut in a light, drapey, one-way stretch knit fabric.  The seam allowances are generous at 1.25cm (½") so there is enough fabric to finish the neckline and armholes.  The wider seam allowance will also be useful if you cut this tunic in woven fabrics (e.g. light weight cotton voile, light silks and some rayons).  It's home and industry ready with a flexible fit that makes it so easy to wear. This product is for personal and home use only.  For education and commercial use please email me direct.
The first order of business is to select your fabric for this elegant tunic.  I'd recommend soft drape knits for your first sample.  That could be either one or two-way stretch knits although the elastane found in two-way stretch is not needed in this design.  And I did have some success using a light cotton voile keeping in mind a petticoat would be needed.  And I'm just dying to try it out in a silk crepe de chine!  Check out the blog post to see the voile sample:  Pattern Puzzle - Drape Back Dress 
Remember I'm just an email away for any questions about our PDF downloadable patterns.  If you enjoy pattern making and fancy a challenge, have a look at the great pattern making posts on my blog, well-suited.
Enjoy. :)

The Drape Back Tunic or Dress length.  Choose your fabrics carefully!  Cotton voile will fit up to size 14 without any issues.  Cut in knit it can fit up to size 20!

 or call 0419 167 451 / email enquiries@studiofaro.com

The Drape Tube Skirt has to be one of the easiest skirts I have hanging in my wardrobe.  So easy to wear and wash and never iron then to top it off the fit and shape of the skirt is forever flattering.  This PDF has all sizes included (6-22) and some design alteration instructions included in the pattern.  You'll be able to moderate the amount of drape in the back of the skirt according to your own taste.  You can checkout some detail about this design on the blog:
Pattern Puzzle - Drape Tube Skirt
First Sample - Drape Tube Skirt
Available here as a PDF download to be printed as A0 at your local print shop. And for my U.S. followers this A0 format will fit in a 36" plotter print.
More of the Pattern Puzzle designs are being developed as we speak so make sure you are subscribed to receive my newsletter to be the first to hear.
THIS PRODUCT IS FOR PERSONAL AND HOME USE ONLY.  For education and commercial use please email me direct.
This drape skirt is best cut in a double knit PONTI with an elastane content (lycra, spandex) for good recovery.  The seam allowances are 1cm (â…œ") on the centre front and back seams with 0.7cm (¼") on the waistline for the self bind and elastic.
It's home and industry ready and based on my size chart.  The pattern fitting is for body hugging garment with a negative ease of 5-10% depending on your fabric choice.  When you check the measurements on the size you have selected you're looking for your body measurements minus 4-10cm approx.
The first order of business is to select your closest size and begin the process of fitting this skirt to your own measurements.  The range of sizes on offer relates to my size chart.  Cut your closest size in a similar fabric for first fittings and make any necessary adjustments for personal fit. Once you have achieved a good personal fit you will be ready to cut in your final fabric.
Remember I'm just an email away for any questions about our PDF downloadable patterns.  If you enjoy pattern making and fancy a challenge, have a look at the great pattern making posts on my blog, well-suited.
Enjoy. :)




 or call 0419 167 451 / email enquiries@studiofaro.com
Back to Top

 4,859 total views, 1 views today













  

L’esclave du gang (Warner Bros, 1951). France 120 x 160.
Joan Crawford,  rouge à lèvres aux couleurs de sa chevelure rouquine, les yeux éclatant de vert, et vêtue d’une robe noire et de gangs assortis, se tient de manière opulente et sexy devant le spectateur. Quoi de plus vendeur pour ce film que le portrait de l’actrice magnifiquement dessiné par Boris Grinsson? On en vient presque à oublier l’individu armé qui se tient derrière la femme fatale. L’expression aveuglée par le charme et la beauté fatale, l’homme n’en demeure pas moins menaçant avec son revolver. Est le chef du gang?
Entrez vos coordonnées ci-dessous ou cliquez sur une icône pour vous connecter:


			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte WordPress.com.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Google.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Twitter.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Facebook.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			


Connexion à %s
 Avertissez-moi par e-mail des nouveaux commentaires.
 Avertissez-moi par e-mail des nouveaux articles.
 




Entrez votre adresse mail pour suivre ce blog et être notifié par email des nouvelles publications.
Rejoignez 165 autres abonnés







 
		                Suivre                    


Neil Entwistle found guilty of double murder and faces life imprisonment
Neil Entwistle has been found guilty of murdering his wife and baby daughter and faces a life sentence without parole, when he is sentenced later today.
The British IT worker will be jailed today for shooting dead his 27-year-old wife Rachel and their nine-month-old daughter Lillian Rose as they lay in bed at home last year.
Sharethrough (Mobile)






window._apesterSlots=window._apesterSlots||[];window._apesterSlots.push({"id":"apester-2","class":"apester-desktop","placement":"desktop","token":"581c5df9203aa70102c5480a","context":true,"tags":"","fallback":true});
The jury came to their verdict after deliberating for thirteen hours. District Attorney, Gerard Leone Jr commented on the decision saying: ‘Neil Entwistle will spend the rest of his life in jail, which is where he belongs. He is now held accountable and responsible for these unforgivable acts.’
Leone continued saying it was a ‘true, just and right verdict’.
Entwistle’s parents have already condemned the verdict and last night vowed to prove their son did not murder his wife and daughter. 
Outside court, Yvonne Entwistle told reporters: ‘We know that our son Neil is innocent and we are devastated to learn that the evidence points to Rachel murdering our grandchild and then committing suicide.’
Entwistle’s lawyer has said they will appeal. 
Sign up for our daily bulletin and get the latest fashion & beauty news, competitions and exclusive Marie Claire offers direct to your inbox
By submitting your information, you agree to the Terms & Conditions and  Privacy & Cookies Policy.
By submitting your information, you agree to the Terms & Conditions and  Privacy & Cookies Policy.
A Scarva man was given a suspended prison sentence last Thursday at Banbridge Magistrates Court for breaching a non molestation order.
Phillip Magill (33), Moody Park, Scarva, was sentenced to four months in custody, suspended for two years, and fined £250.
He was also fined £250, with a £15 offender’s levy, for breach of a conditional discharge.
The court heard that case had been listed at a previous court as a contest but Magill did not turn up on the day and he was convicted in his absence.The breach of the non molestation order was alleged to have happened between March 8 and April 9 this year at Moody Park.
It was claimed Magill sounded the horn of his van as he drove past the injured party’s home and said to her ‘once a rat always a rat’.
A barrister representing the defendant said he mixed up the dates as far as the contest was concerned and he still maintained that he did not commit the offence.
Bail was set at £500 for Magill to lodge an appeal.
©2019 JPIMedia Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mon panier
Mon compte
Service client
 Une courroie de rechange pour vos matériels de jardin, de bricolage ou de chantier.En savoir plus 
 Référence pour les commandes par téléphone : 3158 
5 / 5 sur un total de 1 note - Tous les avis
La loi Française impose un délai de rétractation de 14 jours. Nous avons décidé de doubler ce délai, en commandant sur Euro-Expos vous bénéficiez d'un délai de rétractation étendu à 30 jours sans avoir à justifier les raisons.
 Pour les particuliers : le droit de rétractation entraine un remboursement total des produits. Le remboursement intervient après le retour des produits et leur vérification. Pour les professionnels : le droit de rétractation n'est légalement pas applicable pour les pros. Toutefois, nous avons décidé de leur permettre d'en profiter : nous établirons un avoir valable sur un prochain achat ou pour un échange.
Important : les produits doivent être retournés neufs et non utilisés, dans leur emballage d'origine avec leurs accessoires. Notifiez nous via votre espace client dans un délai de 30 jours après la date de réception de la commande
Le retour de votre commande vers nos entrepôts en France s'effectue à vos frais et sous votre responsabilité : nous vous encourageons donc à bien emballer les marchandises et à mandater un transporteur de confiance qui utilisera le même moyen que lors de la livraison initiale (une commande livrée sur palette doit être retournée sur palette).
Voir les conditions détaillées de rétractation
 La garantie pour les particuliers est de 2 ans. La garantie pour les professionnels est de 1 an. Durant cette période, nous prenons en charge les pièces, la main d'oeuvre et les frais de transport de nos ateliers vers chez vous une fois le matériel réparé.
La garantie ne s'applique pas aux pièces consommables et pièces d'usure telles que les courroies, les pneus et chambres à air, les lames ... Le transport de chez vous vers nos ateliers est à votre charge. Ainsi, nous essayons au maximum de diagnostiquer les pannes à distance pour vous éviter des frais et vous faire gagner du temps
 Notre atelier principal se situe à Bourges dans le centre de la France ; au cas par cas nous pouvons faire appel à l'un de nos réparateurs proche de chez vous. Si vous connaissez un professionnel de confiance sur votre secteur, n'hésitez pas à nous mettre en relation avec lui. Nous suivons les pièces détachées de toutes nos machines directement auprès des fabricants sur plusieurs années.
Notre atelier est en mesure de vous accompagner pour la fourniture de pièces détachées en dehors de la période de garantie. Vous pouvez contacter notre atelier et fournir à nos techniciens le maximum de détails via la page suivante.
Voir nos conditions détaillées de garantie et SAV
 Ce produit est généralement expédié par colis livré par  Colissimo La Poste,  DPD Exapaq,  Kuehne Nagel. Les délais de livraison sont de 2 jours ouvrés pour le A40-PRC1016 de la marque EURO-EXPOS.
 Au départ des marchandises, un suivi de livraison sera mis à disposition dans votre espace client et vous sera adressé par e-mail. Dans certains cas, notamment pour les livraison sur palettes, le suivi en ligne n'est pas systématiquement disponible.
 Nous vous rappelons que les transporteurs et leurs chauffeurs peuvent parfois rencontrer des retards de livraison involontaires, un faible pourcentage d'expéditions peuvent subir des écarts par rapport aux délais estimés au départ. Vous commandez en connaissance de cause et devez prendre en considération le fait que les délais annoncés sont une estimation et non contractuels. Nous mettons tout en oeuvre pour vous satisfaire au maximum.
La livraison du Courroie trapézoidale 13 x 8 mm A40, longueur ext. 1066 mm en France Métropolitaine hors Corse est facturée 6.95 €.
 Le coût d'une livraison en Corse dépend de la nature des produits commandés. Certains peuvent être livrés sans surcôuts, d'autres nécessitent un supplément. Merci d'interroger nos conseillers avant votre commande. Si vous résidez dans les DOM-TOM, merci de réaliser une demande de devis avant votre commande pour connaître le supplément. Certaines marchandises nécessitent que vous preniez contact vous-même avec un transitaire qui se chargera du fret vers votre destination.
 Si vous êtes pressés, nous pouvons proposer la livraison Express en supplément, sur certains produits et vers certaines destinations uniquement. Nous vous invitons à prendre contact avec notre service commercial pour un devis
 Nous pouvons livrer certains produits vers les pays proches en Europe, merci de réaliser une demande de devis avant votre commande pour connaître le supplément tarifaire.
Voir les conditions de livraison détaillées
01.75.43.03.82
Téléphone non surtaxé, prix d'un appel local.
Nous vous rappelons sur votre téléphone fixe ou mobile dans quelques instants !

Répartition des notes
Max
le 04/11
Livraison rapide, bon produit
0 internaute a trouvé cette remarque utile
 
Espace client moderneSuivi des colis et factures
Réponse à vos questionsavec bonne humeur
Des accessoires offertsavec votre commande
3 ou 4x sans fraisà partir de 300 €
Nos ateliers prochesde chez vous
Euro-Expos.com est le meilleur magasin en ligne pour vos achats de matériel de jardin avec un paiement en plusieurs fois sans frais par carte bancaire : vous pourrez commander un broyeur de végétaux pas cher livré gratuitement dans toute La France afin de pouvoir transformer vos résidus de coupe en BRF ou compost. Nos bancs de scie et fendeuse de bûches à moteur thermique vous permettront de préparer votre bois de chauffage pour l'hiver. Afin de lutter contre les chûtes de neige, commandez une fraise à neige accompagnée d'un épandeur de sel pour vos allées et parkings. N'oubliez pas non plus de vous équiper avec un motoculteur, un rotovator ou une cellule motrice multifonction pour retourner votre terre et préparer votre potager. Nos débroussailleuses, tondeuses et motofaucheuses viendront à bout des plus hautes herbes de votre jardin. La marketplace Euro-Expos est également le paradis du garagiste professionnel ou du mécanicien occasionnel avec une gamme étendue d'équipement de garage de qualité : des dizaines de références en équilibreuse de roue, démonte pneus ou encore table élévatrice hydraulique vous permettront de dépanner vos clients rapidement. les dépanneurs et remorqueurs seront également comblés avec une gamme de puissants treuils électriques professionnels, booster de démarrage et chariots de déplacement de véhicules immobilisés. 
L'outillage à main ou motorisé que nous proposons à la vente va vous surprendre, que vous soyez à la recherche de matériel pour un chantier ou d'équipement pour le bricolage à la maison ; vous trouverez plus de 100 marques réputées en Europe et dans le monde entier. Le matériel Euro-Expos vous sera utile en toutes saisons : aussi bien pour vous rafraichir en été avec de nombreux ventilateurs, extracteurs d'air et climatiseurs mobiles ; que pour vous réchauffer en hiver avec un générateur d'air chaud mobile fioul/gaz ou aérotherme électrique portable. Les conseillers Euro-Expos sont à votre service par messagerie instantanée ou par téléphone pour vous proposer toutes les pièces détachées pour réparer vous même vos machines en panne, ou pour vous aider à trouver un réparateur local qui prendra en charge le matériel pendant ou après la période de garantie. 

Dillinger (Radius, 1947). France 120 x 160.
Entrez vos coordonnées ci-dessous ou cliquez sur une icône pour vous connecter:


			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte WordPress.com.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Google.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Twitter.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			




			Vous commentez à l'aide de votre compte Facebook.			
				( Déconnexion / 
				Changer )
			


Connexion à %s
 Avertissez-moi par e-mail des nouveaux commentaires.
 Avertissez-moi par e-mail des nouveaux articles.
 




Entrez votre adresse mail pour suivre ce blog et être notifié par email des nouvelles publications.
Rejoignez 165 autres abonnés







 
		                Suivre                    




The following pages link to GetObjectProperty:

A South African bitcoin trader was reportedly drugged, beaten, and tortured by assailants who wanted to gain access to his bitcoin holdings. Facebook Invitation Led to...
Copyright © 2019 Bitcoin Africa Ltd.

Bodega Benegas

			  2008			

			  75,0 cl			

			  14,5% vol			

I modsætning til kollegaerne på den anden side af Andesbjergene, er der intet vand på den østlige side af bjergene. Den eneste måde man i dette golde landskab kan få kølighed på er, at beplante op af bjergene, hvilket de gør i Mendoza i helt op til 1500 meters højde over havets overflade.
Mendoza dækker et relativt stort område op mod bjergene. Der kan dog være op til 5 graders forskel på de enkelte underområder i regionen, hvilket giver mulighed for at arbejde med flere forskelllige druer. Malbec er den mest udbredte drue, og den giver rygrad til fyldige vine med stor smagsintensitet.

Bodega Benegas

			  2008			

			  75,0 cl			

			  14,5% vol			





googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1509207145990-0'); });

Dans une mise à jour publiée le 20 aout dernier par l’ambassade de France en Algérie, l’Etat français a déconseillé à ses ressortissants de se rendre sur la frontière Tuniso-algérienne pour des raisons sécuritaires.
« De manière générale, les zones frontalières sont formellement déconseillées, d’autant que des groupes terroristes sont actifs dans certains pays voisins » a-t-on indiqué citant en l’occurrence l’est, près de la frontière tunisienne.
« A l’est, près de la frontière tunisienne : il convient d’éviter cette zone, notamment entre Kenchela et Tebessa (présence de groupes terroristes) » a-t-on mis en garde.

Showing all 3 results
Copyright The Grapevine 2018 - All Rights Reserved
Designed by Craft Digital
Der Umgang mit Macht in der Gestalttherapie wird erörtert. Zunächst wird Macht als Merkmal jeder menschlichen Beziehung beschrieben und gegenüber Herrschaft abgegrenzt. Anschließend wird gezeigt, wie Macht in der Therapie und Therapieausbildung in mehr oder weniger bewußter und kontrollierter Form auftreten kann. Es werden Gefahren aufgezeigt, die mit der Verbreitung der Gestalttherapie und der Institutionalisierung der Gestaltausbildung sowie mit dem Bemühen um staatliche Anerkennung verbunden sind. Abschließend wird in acht Thesen zusammengefaßt, welche Konsequenzen sich daraus für die Deutsche Vereinigung für Gestalttherapie ergeben, falls sie den Grundsätzen von Gestalttherapie treu bleiben will.
DULUTH, MN — A doctor out of the Grand Itasca Clinic and Hospital is one of eight people who were arrested last week in connection with an undercover operation dealing with online solicitation of minors.
Dr. Ogechukwu Adekweh has been charged with engaging in or agreeing to hire a minor to engage in prostitution. Police say he was speaking to an undercover officer he believed to be between the ages of 13 and 16.
Authorities say they conducted the undercover operation known as the Juvenile Demand Suppression Detail at a hotel in Duluth on January 30th and 31st.
According to the criminal complaint, authorities placed ads on various sites known for soliciting commercial sex, and Dr. Adekweh was among those who responded.
The ad showed several pictures of a female in suggestive poses, describing the female as willing to engage in sexual activity.
The criminal complaint states that Dr. Adekweh asked an undercover officer if she was available for a quick visit.
After the two sides agreed on a price, undercover officers revealed that the female was not yet 16-years-old. Dr. Adekweh then arrived at the hotel room and was arrested.
On Monday, the Grand Itasca Clinic and Hospital commented on Dr. Adekweh’s arrest, stating:
“We are deeply troubled by the allegations regarding Dr. Adekweh. Although we understand that they involve conduct unrelated to Grand Itasca, he has been placed on administrative leave.”
Lieutenant Dan Chicos, with the Duluth Police Department, says the sting was a complete collaborative effort. Both state and local agencies participated in an effort to bring awareness to the nationwide issue of the online solicitation of minors.
Though it was just a two-day operation, Lt. Chicos says it took the agencies several weeks to plan out.
Lt. Chicos says the issue is not just exclusive to the Twin Ports community, but is a national issue in which social media gives those who engage the ability to reach out from afar and communicate with children.
“It’s important for parents in this community to make sure they know who their children are communicating with online. Take a real interest when their kids are online. See who their communicating and what websites they’re visiting. Again, we really want to raise for online safety for our kids in this community,” Lt. Chicos said.
Lt. Chicos pointed out that those who were arrested didn’t fit a particular profile. He says the operation proves that anyone can be on the other side of an online conversation, and it’s important for parents and children to understand that.
We’ve uploaded a copy of Adekweh’s criminal complaint below.

TONIGHT: Clouds will continue to increase into the evening, and rain showers will move into the region. Northern Minnesota will
CBS 3 Duluth
246 South Lake Ave.
Duluth, MN 55802
News Tips: 218-720-9666 
or newstips@cbs3duluth.com
Accessibility Tools
Cara Memperbesar Penis
Dominator
SehatFresh.com – Sahabat Pembaca, pernahkah Anda bertanya mengapa wanita lebih terpuaskan dengan kondisi penis pria yang besar caraperbesar penis pakek tangan dan panjang? Apakah benar ada alasan mendasarnya?
1.Faktor psikologis Beberapa penelitian mengungkapkan, bahwa penyebab utama terjadinya ejakulasi dini disebabkan oleh faktor psikologis. Dimana pria merasa cemas, karena takut tidak dapat memberikan kepuasaan kepada pasangan. Berikut ini adalah beberapa faktor psikologis lain yang dapat menimbulkan terjadinya ejakulasi dini.
Anorisme - tidak adanya testis, kelenjar prostat, tubulus seminiferus, keterbelakangan lingga. bisa, berlaku untuk seluruh wilayah indonesia untuk order, silakan hubungi kami di WA/SMS 082 115 caraperbesar penis pakek tangan 115 511 ditunggu orderannya.
Pria lebih mudah terkena gangguan psikologi yang mengakibatkan turunnya gangguan seksual dari pada wanita, dengan perbandingan 70% untuk pria dan 30% untuk wanita, ini menunjukkan pria sering mengalami guncangan psikologi yang berimbas pada peforma seksual dan menurunnya libido dari pada wanita.
The move is guaranteed to send her to new height. Tutorial Pakai Titan Gel Asli Cream Pembesar Penis Tutorial Pakai Titan Gel Asli Cream Pembesar Penis Pria harus mengikuti prosedur yang berlaku caraperbesar penis pakek tangan agar memberikan efek masksimal. The price seems to range between 20-30, without including the price of shipping. 600rb, bank BCA, via JNE. testosterone boosters do help to enhance your libido and performance and ultimately thats what matters not necessarily your size. Uang masuk barang langsung kami proses dan kami kirim lewat jasa pengiriman.
khusus produk kami berupa makanan maupun minuman, mohon perhatiannya, kami akan mengirimkan tanggal exp date yg terbaru (perlu perhatian karena beberapa makanan basah atau kue tdk memiliki exp date yg lama krn tanpa bahan pengawet) kami tdk menerima komplain dalam bentuk apapun, seperti.
Bahan dasar pembuatan dari Munchord Capsules ialah jamur Cordyceps yang tumbuh di dataran tinggi memiliki kandungan cordyceps sinensis, protein, lemak tak jneuh, asam amino, meineral, oegesterol, dan hexoserol. Produk memiliki manfaat untuk meningkatkan vitalitas pria, mencegah tubuh terpapar radiasi, antibiotic alami, memperbaiki fungsi kerja hati, mengobati diabetes, meningkatkan imunitas tubuh, mencegah tumbuh nya tumor, dan meningkatkan kejantanan pria. WA 087809000530. Jual produk paket obat kuat tiens muncord dan zinc capsule ready stock 2018. Terlaris karena aman tanpa menimbulkan efek samping. Selamat datang di situs resmi kami agen distributor penjual obat kuat tiens muncord yang sudah banyak testimoni konsumen. Pada pembahasan kali ini kami akan memberikan informasi mengenai jual produk paket obat kuat tiens.
Apalagi di masyarakat ada banyak sekali mitos yang berkembang seperti makan tangkur buaya dapat membuat pria tahan lama bercinta, minum air caraperbesar penis pakek tangan mata duyung akan membuat istri kelojotan saat berhubungan, makan jantung hiu menyembuhkan ejakulasi dini.
" Naruto mendesah tidak jelas karena perlakuan Guren. awalnya Naruto mendesah tertahan, lalu Guren melepaskan ciumannya hingga Naruto bisa mendesah bebas untuk sesaat. tapi Naruto kembali mendesah tertahan saat Guren meraup bibirnya lagi.
Komposisi / Bahan Titan Gel formula khusus, yang terdiri dari herbal konsentrat, aphrodisiacs dan caraperbesar penis pakek tangan vitamin Komposisi Titan Gel, Obat Pembesar Alat Vital Pria Tradisional. Luangkan lebih banyak waktu dengan pasangan anda untuk meningkatkan keintiman bersama
Jual hamer permen stamina lelaki COD Di Nusa Tenggara Barat Meliputi: Bima, Dompu, Gerung, Mataram, Praya, Selong, Sumbawa Besar, Taliwang, Woha / Ramba, Batu Hijau. Kabupaten Dompu, Lombok Barat, Lombok Tengah, Lombok Timur, Sumbawa, Sumbawa Barat, Bima. Urut di celah selangkangan hingga separuh paha dan seterusnya ke lutut. Ulang 10 sampai 15 kali
1 lembar Brosur 2 sisi Full Colour (Tisu Majakani dari Boyke & Co. Agen Penirum Asli COD
Cara memperbesar alat vital pria dengan teh basi. Di era serba cepat dan caraperbesar penis pakek tangan instant ini, telah merambah semaraknya makanan dan minuman cepat saji yang tentu saja hyginitas-nya perlu dipertanyakan. Penggunaan penyedap makanan dan pengawet makanan yang berlebihan dan tidak terkontrol, telah menyumbang besar bagi kesehatan individu.
Alamat email Anda tidak akan dipublikasikan. Bidang yang harus diisi ditandai *
Komentar 
Nama * 
Email * 
Situs web 
 




Situs ini menggunakan Akismet untuk mengurangi spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.

Ralph Mariano is currently facing charges of conspiracy, theft of government funds, extortion, wire fraud and tax evasion. His father, Ralph Mariano Jr., also faces multiple counts of tax evasion.
According to federal authorities, the illegal kickback scheme dates back to 1996. Whistleblowers provided inside information about a plot to defraud the US Navy, which was allegedly hatched by Ralph Mariano and Anjan Dutta-Gupta. Both Mariano and Duttp-Gupta were the co-owners of a company known as Advanced Solutions for Tomorrow (ASFT), which held over $120 million in Navy defense contracts. ASFT was a computer-related defense contract operation which had offices located in Georgia and Rhode Island.
In 2011, Mariano and Dutta-Gupta were arrested and criminally charged for their roles in the fraudulent scheme. Dutta-Gupta later admitted to paying illegal kickbacks and plead guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. Federal authorities additionally filed charges against ASFT officers, including one attorney, and several others connected to the illegal defense fraud scheme.
Dutta-Gupta allegedly used subcontractors to transfer approximately $10 million to Mariano and his co-conspirators for over a decade. These illegal kickbacks were provided as a bribe to secure over $120 million in Navy Contracts.
Immediately following Dutta-Gupta’s arrest, ASFT was forced to lay off its entire staff in both locations. Workers were notified of the mass termination via email. The company also had its assets frozen and could not secure financing. ASFT closed its doors for good shortly afterward.
Allegations of Illegal Kickbacks and Fraudulent Activity
According to official court documents, from approximately 1996 to January 2011, ASFT paid at least $8,000,000 to Mariano via the company’s subcontractors. In addition to funneling money to Mariano, a civilian program manager and senior systems engineer with the United States Navy’s Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA), illegal kickback funds were also sent to Mariano’s family members, a senior vice president and the director of strategic planning at ASFT.
In exchange for Dutta-Gupta and ASFT’s illegal kickbacks, Mariano made sure that ASFT received payment for the invoices that were submitted. Mariano also ensured that ASFT received additional funding for their existing Navy contracts as Dutta-Gupta requested. Working as a program manager for the Naval Undersea Warfare Center, Mariano allegedly ordered Navy contracting officers to add funding to ASFT contracts and delivery orders on a regular basis. In order to cover his tracks, Mariano allegedly forged multiple funding certification forms when adding fraudulent funds to the ASFT contracts.
Federal authorities also alleged that illegal kickbacks were provided to Mariano through businesses that were owned by Russell Spencer. As a sub-contractor, Spencer submitted false and fraudulent claims to ASFT for work that was allegedly never completed. After receiving payment for the bogus invoices, Spencer then passed the money along to Mariano through various other individuals and companies, including Mariano’s father, Ralph Mariano Jr. Spencer allegedly received a portion of the payments as his “salary.”
In June 2011, Spencer plead guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. As part of the plea agreement, Spencer will pay back more than $330,000 of the proceeds he garnered in the illegal kickback scheme.
Another co-conspirator, Mary O’Rourke, also faces charges in the defense fraud case. O’Rourke is a lawyer and had served as senior vice president at ASFT since 1998. According to the DOJ, O’Rourke was allegedly paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for doing little to no work for ASFT. Coincidentally, O’Rourke is also the girlfriend of Ralph Mariano. She entered a not guilty plea and will face a judge later this year. O’Rourke faces charges of conspiracy, theft of government property and wire fraud.
Patrick Nagle, the former senior vice president and director of contracts for ASFT, was also charged in connection with the case. Nagle allegedly okayed false and inflated invoices submitted to his firm by ASFT subcontractors from 1999 to June 2010. He approved the bogus invoices even though he was aware most of the work had not been done. Nagle agreed to plead guilty to charges of conspiracy to commit bribery and will be sentenced in July.
 
Sign up for our Newsletter
This website contains attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.

        Articles sélectionnés pour le thème : 
      aspirateur cendres pellets
Great worldview for travelers to have a spy sneak peek at travel destinations. Installer sur votre appareil Scannez le code QR et installez cette application directement sur votre appareil Android. Comment utiliser l'application très facile et simple n'a pas besoin d'aucune expérience préalable seulement chargé et suivez les étapes ci-dessous. Application vous donne un choix pour créer un effet final avec: Hack Camera prank moh-ammed 2.
Cependant, always. Téléchargement direct Télécharger cette application sur votre bureau. Have a live streaming webcam video from everywhere in the world, de sorte que l'image finalement généré ressemble presque le même que le point de vue de la caméra des téléphones.
Il est clair que vous souhaitez obtenir la web cam de sécurité maximale pour vous. How to use the application very easy and simple does not need any prior experience only loaded and follow the steps below.
Scannez le code QR et installez comment espionner un numero de telephone sans logiciel application directement sur votre appareil Android. Votes utilisateur pour Hack Camera prank 4.
However, mots orlive cames phrases pro seront utilisés pour créer l'image en direct caméra ascii. Application gives you a choice to create final effect with: Camera Hack monitor free is the free, words orlive cams pro sentences will be used to create live camera ascii image.
Pas d'avis sur Hack Camera pranktrendnet version of Camera Hack monitor. Flag Hack Camera prank. Partager cette app comment espionner son mari sur whatsapp. With live Camera viewer you can: At téléchargement gratuit de pirater cam android end we get very interesting effect which is similar to movie scene where a group of hackers tries to webcams viewer crack the password and pirater cam Androïde into secured system.
The pirater cam android francais of Camera hack live of the best applications of Google comment hacker un iphone greeted you in hack the surveillance cameras banks cameras shops or hack the cameras smart phones in addition to hack the cameras comment localisation gps iphone and computers.
Boutique moh-ammed 22 3. Vous pouvez voir un espion une caméra web, soyez le premier. Avec visionneuse de caméra en direct, it is important to piratage cam android that any person could penetrate it at any time. Nous utilisons des cookies pour vous offrir un grand app store!.
Guide for Whatsapp Update? YouTube for Android TV! Description de Hack Camera prank The application of Camera hack live of the best applications of Google play greeted you in hack the surveillance cameras banks cameras shops or hack the cameras smart phones in addition to hack the cameras mobile and computers. Vous pouvez choisir votre propre quels caractères, toujours. Each character is placed side by side and drawn with different colour, il est important de savoir que toute personne qui pourrait pénétrer à tout moment!
Téléchargements 3k - 5k. You can see a spy a web camera you cctv can use your laptop computer comment pirater gmail your permission. Télécharger des applications similaires sur Hack Camera prank.
Avoir une webcam vidéo de partout en streaming en direct dans le monde, vous Cctv pouvez utiliser votre ordinateur portable sans votre permission. Ce grand outil prend la vue en direct de la caméra et le convertit en image avec uniquement des caractères ASCII. Chaque personnage est placé côte à côte et dessiné avec une couleur différente, vous pouvez: A la fin nous obtenons pirater cam Androïde très intéressant qui est similaire au film scène où un groupe de hackers tente de webcams spectateur casser le mot de passe et de briser dans le système sécurisé.
In live cams earthcam order to protect them from level one Hackers Camera Hack changes your camera view in the way it looks like someone is hacking into secure operating system. Grande vision du monde pour les voyageurs d'avoir un coup d'oeil espion d'oeil à des destinations de voyage. téléchargement gratuit de pirater cam android des caméras en direct EarthCam afin de les protéger d'un niveau Hackers Caméra Hack change votre point de vue de la caméra dans la façon dont il ressemble à quelqu'un est le piratage dans le téléchargement gratuit de pirater cam android d'exploitation sécurisé.
You can choose on your own what characters, so finally generated image looks almost the same as the view from phones camera. Applications Divertissement Hack Camera prank. Bitmoji - votre Emoticône personnel.
Besoin d'une licence 1. It is clear that you wish to obtain the maximum security web cam for you.

Tweets by iPhoneAddictFr 







Suivez et contrôlez à distance toutes les activités des enfants sur tous les smartphones et ordinateurs
Accédez au contenu complet des chats et des messageries sur l'appareil surveillé.
Notre équipe d'assistance professionnelle est joignable par e-mail, chat ou téléphone.
Stockez, sauvegardez et exportez vos données en toute sécurité.
Vous pouvez simultanément surveiller des smartphones (Android, iOS) et des ordinateurs (Mac, Windows).
Affichez chaque SMS envoyé ou reçu par l'appareil cible
Soyez informé de tous les chats ayant lieu via les réseaux sociaux sur l'appareil surveillé
Surveillez les applications de communication populaires comme WhatsApp
Découvrez l'endroit où se trouvent vos enfants ou vos employés
Accédez aux données d'horodatage relatives aux appels reçus et émis
Affichez toutes les photos/vidéos sur l'appareil surveillé
Consultez l'historique des e-mails sur les appareils surveillés
Découvrez toutes les fonctionnalités de mSpy
Vérifiez chaque touche saisie par l'utilisateur même en cas de suppression immédiate
Affichez les captures d'écran de l'ordinateur prises automatiquement
Soyez informé de la durée d'activité des utilisateurs pour chaque session ouverte sur l'ordinateur
Regardez plus précisément les programmes et les applications utilisés sur l'ordinateur cible.
Obtenez des informations complètes sur tous les courriers ouverts sur l'appareil cible dans les navigateurs Firefox, Chrome, Internet Explorer et Safari
Affichez la liste de toutes les applications installées sur l'ordinateur surveillé
Affichez tous les favoris et l'historique de navigation de l'appareil surveillé. Les données de l'historique de navigation comprennent également des informations d'horodatage.
Activez tout ce que mSpy peut vous offrir
mSpy traite chacun de ses clients avec la plus grande considération et apporte une grande attention à la qualité de son service d'assistance disponible 24/7.
La satisfaction client est la première priorité pour mSpy. 95 % des clients mSpy se disent satisfaits et prêts à réutiliser nos services. 

Lorsque j'ai essayé mSpy pour la première fois, cette application a immédiatement pris une place inestimable dans ma vie de parent. Elle me permet de savoir ce que mes enfants sont en train de faire et de m'assurer que tout va bien. J'apprécie également la possibilité de régler les paramètres et de pouvoir bloquer ou autoriser les contacts, les sites ou les applications de mon choix.


mSpy est une application sympa qui me permet de suivre efficacement les activités de mon enfant sur Internet. J'ai également la possibilité de bloquer des contacts suspects, le cas échéant. Un bon choix pour des parents modernes.


Garantir la sécurité des enfants est essentiel pour tous les parents. mSpy me permet de garder un œil sur ma fille quand je ne suis pas avec elle. Je le recommande fortement !


Mon fils utilise ses téléphones 24/7, et parfois je souhaite seulement m'assurer qu'il ne fait rien de mal. mSpy me permet d'être régulièrement au courant de toutes ses activités.


Je recherchais une application sympa pour garder un œil sur mes enfants quand je suis absente. Un de mes amis m'a recommandé mSpy. J'ai adoré ! Cela me permet de surveiller mes enfants dans les flots tumultueux d'Internet.

L'application est avant tout destinée à des fins de surveillance légales, et il existe de vraies raisons légitimes d'installer le logiciel. Les entreprises, par exemple, peuvent informer leurs employés qu'elles surveillent les téléphones professionnels par mesure de sécurité
LOGICIEL DESTINÉ EXCLUSIVEMENT À UN USAGE LÉGAL. L'installation d'un logiciel de surveillance, tel que le Logiciel sous licence, sur un téléphone portable ou un autre appareil mobile, que vous n'êtes pas en droit de surveiller, constitue une infraction à la loi nationale et/ou fédérale des États-Unis et, dans la plupart des cas, à la loi en vigueur dans votre juridiction locale. La loi stipule généralement que vous devez avertir les utilisateurs/propriétaires de l'appareil que celui-ci est placé sous surveillance. Tout manquement à cette obligation peut se traduire par de lourdes sanctions financières et pénales imposées au contrevenant. Vous êtes invité à consulter votre conseiller juridique personnel en ce qui concerne le caractère légal de l'utilisation que vous voulez faire du Logiciel sous licence avant de le télécharger, de l'installer et de l'utiliser. Vous assumez l'entière responsabilité dans la détermination de votre droit à surveiller l'appareil sur lequel le Logiciel sous licence est installé. My Spy (mSpy) décline toute responsabilité si un Utilisateur choisit de surveiller un appareil qu'il n'est pas en droit de surveiller. My Spy (mSpy) n'est pas non plus habilité à fournir des conseils juridiques concernant l'utilisation du Logiciel sous licence.
© 2017 My Spy (mSpy). Toutes les marques commerciales appartiennent à leurs propriétaires respectifs.
Product 2/50
Bonjour a toutes et peut être tous? ;)
Un petit message ici pour m'excuser du manque de publication! J'ai eu un soucis qui englobe toute la famille (mes parents ont été cambriolé) et depuis ce jour et en attendant au moins une nouvelle porte, je fais des aller retour entre chez moi et la maison des parents pour être a la maison pendant que mes parents travaillent et aussi pour rester avec mon Apple et ne pas le laisser seul dans cette maison qui ferme plus
Voilà donc entre mon petit travail, les aller retour, etc, je suis assez crevée ces temps ci et j'ai moins de temps pour scrapper, d'ailleurs je ne scrappes plus du tout!!!! ça me manque un peu je dois dire...
J'espère revenir bientôt! en attendant merci pour vos visites et vos commentaires qui me font toujours très plaisir! je retiens que j'ai été taguée et j'espère au moins faire ce tag ;)
Merci beaucooup et a très vite :)

PUNK IS NOT DEAD !!!!
Bonjour
J"essaye de me rattraper en scrap, en scrappant plus que d'habitude!!!! Le temps est plus doux,...» Lire la suite
DE RETOUR!
Bonjour! :)
Me revoilà non pas pour jouer un mauvais tour (enfin je n'espère pas!)mais pour remettre le blog...» Lire la suite
 bon courage en attendant.
 Alors bon courage à toi et tes parents et à bientôtBiz
 merci beaucoup les filles! <3 
 Beoordeling:  4.3/7 (32 stemmen geteld)  
A 71-YEAR-OLD year man who died after falling from a block of flats took his own life while suffering from depression, a jury has ruled.

Charles Davies, who lived in sheltered accommodation in Wansbeck House, Nightingale Road, Southsea, went to visit friend Jessie Knight on April 19 this year, an inquest at Portsmouth Magistrates Court heard.
Ms Knight lived in a sixth-floor flat in Tipton House, Warwick Crescent, Southsea.
Mr Davies left his address at around 5.30pm and was supposed to return within three hours.
The inquest heard how another resident discovered Mr Davies’s body outside the flat at just after 11pm the same evening.
Detective Sergeant Nicola Turton, of Fareham police station, described how Ms Knight had gone to sleep and when she woke up, Mr Davies was not there.
DS Turton told deputy assistant coroner Karen Harrold: ‘Ms Knight confirmed he had been at the flat and there was a large window in her flat that was open.
‘There was a large armchair in front of the window.
‘She explained they had been friends for 20 years, but had not been in a relationship.
‘He had not been in a great frame of mind and he had money troubles.
‘He gambled and owed the banks money.
‘She kept the window open because the flat gets hot and she suffers from breathing problems.
DS Turton added: ‘I concluded from the enquiries I made that there were no suspicious circumstances and there was nobody involved in the flat.
‘There was absolutely nothing suspicious about this death.’
The inquest also heard from psychiatrist Dr Steven Ogunremi, who had been treating Mr Davies since December 2009. He described how Mr Davies had long-suffered with mental health problems, had recurrent depressive disorder and was on medication to treat his condition.
A pathology report showed Mr Davies suffered from multiple injuries which caused his death.
A jury of nine people unanimously returned the verdict that Mr Davies took his own life, while suffering from depression.
©2019 JPIMedia Ltd. All rights reserved.
You will be connected to infodio.com in just a moment...
Learn about Project Shield
Wanted - Jacobi McMillan
Cornelius Police Department - wanted for Assault with Deadly Weapon, Serious Injury, Felony Conspiracy
Cornelius Police Department
seeking public assistance with identifying a suspect involved in an armed robbery
HUNTERSVILLE - A man with a handgun robbed the SunTrust Bank on Holly Point Drive in Huntersville around 3 o’clock Tuesday afternoon. Huntersville police on Tuesday night appealed for help as they look for the suspect, who fled the bank on foot.
 
A police report, said police responded to a silent holdup alarm at the bank branch, at 9617 Holly Point Drive, shortly after 3pm. Upon their arrival, officers were told the suspect had entered the bank and approached a teller. The man showed a handgun and presented a note demanding money.
The teller gave the man an undisclosed amount of US currency, and the man fled the bank on foot in an unknown direction.
Images from a bank video surveillance camera showed a tall, slender white male, 6 feet to 6 feet 2 inches, wearing blue jeans, a white T-shirt, a gray and white striped hoodie sweatshirt, a blue, green, and white camouflage ballcap, glasses, and dark tennis shoes.
Anyone with information about the incident or suspect is asked to contact Huntersville Police at 704-464-5400 or the case supervisor, Lt. Andrew Dempski, at 704-464-5388.

North Mecklenburg Crime Stoppers

Tip Line | 
Crime Preventions Tips | 
Case Files | 
Wanted Suspects | 
Support Us | 
Contact Us

Halstead Design | 
Website Design | 
SEO

Card Accounts
Online Services
Business Accounts
Assistance
Personal Cards
Corporate Cards
Travel Money
Travel Services
Business Services
All Insurance
Travel
Motor
Personal
Membership Rewards
KrisFlyer Miles
CapitaStar$®
Merchants
Corporations
Foreign Exchange Services
Card Accounts
Online Services
Business Accounts
Assistance
Personal Cards
Corporate Cards
Travel Money
Travel Services
Business Services
All Insurance
Travel
Motor
Personal
Membership Rewards
KrisFlyer Miles
CapitaStar$®
Merchants
Corporations
Foreign Exchange Services
International payments
Customer Support
Articles
FAQs
Login | Support
FX International Payments
By Frances Coppola
It's a nightmare risk for any business. Your customer claims to have paid, but the funds never arrive. You receive an email purportedly from a regular supplier informing you of new payment arrangements, and you only discover after you have made a large payment that the supplier has been hacked. Or – perhaps worst of all – funds disappear from your company accounts, diverted who knows where. These are all examples of online fraud.
 
How can you protect your business from this growing threat?
 
 
Always check the credentials of new customers, especially if their first order is large. Be particularly suspicious of customers who provide a P.O. box number instead of a genuine address, or who order a lot of high-value goods that can easily be split up and sold on, or who are in a country with which you don't normally do business. Also, beware of customers who want to split payment across a number of cards, as this might indicate that the cards are stolen. Don't accept payments from people you don't know.
 
The same goes for suppliers. Use reputable suppliers as far as possible, and keep their contact details up to date. If using a new supplier, check that they respond to emails and telephone calls. Be wary of payment instructions received by email; it's wise to verify by telephone or fax before committing funds. Don't send payments to suppliers unless you are sure of their credentials.
 
It's wise to keep a central register of customers and suppliers. Using an online payments solution such as American Express FX International Payments can help you keep track of customers, suppliers and payments and flag up anything that looks suspicious.
 
 
Another line of defence is make sure that your systems are secure. This is clearly important for payment systems, but accounting records are vulnerable to hackers, and the names and contact details of your company, your employees, your customers and your suppliers may be at risk from identity fraudsters.
 
Your IT department should keep hardware and system software up to date and resilient. Firewalls, anti-virus and anti-spyware software should be regularly updated and always active. Don't allow suspicious items past firewalls or virus checkers without careful review.
 
It's also important to make sure your staff are fully aware of the need for physical security. Enforce rules about password strength and confidentiality, and make sure passwords are changed regularly. Limit the amount of personal information that staff can keep online, and only allow downloads from trusted websites. Consider restricting access to social media.
 
Customer data and payments need to be kept particularly secure, so make sure access controls on your system can prevent anyone accessing them without specific permission to do so. For payments, consider using dual verification, where one person enters the details of the payment and another authorises it before sending. It's also wise to segregate functions so that, for example, people responsible for maintaining customer details cannot also make payments. Keeping a printed or electronic record of every payment can be helpful when investigating missing or suspicious payments. American Express FX International Payments supports both dual verification and access controls, and sends emails to record every payment transaction.
 
If you are selling goods and services online, you can help protect your company from identity fraud by registering domain names that are similar to yours or that have the same name with a different ending. For example, SingaporeWidgets might also register SingaporeWidgets.com, SingaporeWidgets.org and variations on SingaporeWidgets.
 
 
Managing your transaction flow is also an important safeguard against fraud. Tracking outgoing and incoming payments as they happen means you can spot suspicious items quickly. It's sensible to reconcile cash books and bank accounts daily and always investigate missing items, or - equally important - items that have arrived that you weren't expecting. American Express FX International Payments’ reporting tools make it easy for you to track your payments, while moving your cash flow management online and integrating it with your ERP software reduces the likelihood of employee fraud.
 
 
Incoming Payment Options For Suppliers
 
Why Do You Need A Risk Management Strategy?
 
Emerging Trends In International Payments Solutions
 
With a well-thought-out fraud prevention strategy supported by systems that give the security and control you need, you can minimise the cost and risk of fraud for your business.
With 17 years experience in the financial industry, Frances is a highly regarded writer and speaker on banking, finance and economics. She writes regularly for the Financial Times, Forbes and a range of financial industry publications. Her writing has featured in The Economist, the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. She is a frequent commentator on TV, radio and online news media including the BBC and RT TV.

                             Terms and Conditions
                       
The information contained in this document has been prepared for general information and educational purposes only without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and is not designed to substitute for, or replace, a professional opinion about any particular business or situation or judgment about risks or appropriateness of any financial or business strategy or approach for any specific business or situation. This document is not a substitute for professional advice.

You should read the Terms and Conditions and consider the appropriateness of International Payments in relation to your individual requirements. For further information, please refer to the relevant Terms and Conditions

Important Note: Articles, comments and any other materials available on or through the FX International Payments website represent the views of their author and do not reflect the opinions or analysis of the American Express Company or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries or divisions. American Express makes no representation as to and is not responsible for, and does not validate, any information, opinions, assertions or statements expressed in any such materials, or the identity or credentials of the individuals communicating through the site. Information available on the site does not, and should not be relied upon to, replace the advice of your own professional legal, tax and financial advisors.

FX International Payments are arranged through American Express International Inc., (UEN S68FC1878J) Incorporated with Limited Liability in the State of Delaware, U.S.A. with a place of business at 10 Marina Boulevard #15-00 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Singapore 018983.

Users of this site agree to be bound by the terms of the American Express Web Site Rules and Regulations.

© 2018 American Express Company. All rights reserved.
Get an American Express Card
More Products & Services
Important Links
Company Information

 Copyright © 2019 American Express Company 

					As you were browsing www.ledsmagazine.com something about your browser made us think you were a bot. There are a few reasons this might happen:
				
After completing the CAPTCHA below, you will immediately regain access to www.ledsmagazine.com.

There are no services available to book online.


        Spa & Massage
      


            975 saratoga st
            
            East Boston, MA 02128
            
            United States
          


Mon - Fri: 10:00am -  6:00pm
          


 +1 (857) 417-7235
        

 Visit Our Website







Powered by Frederick

        © 2019 Frederick Labs LLC
        Terms of Service
        •
        Privacy Policy

Get the news
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Mu Sigma Upsilon, in collaboration with the UCF chapter of the National Organization for Women, hosted the 2012 SlutWalk at UCF.
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        
Students bring awareness to rape stigma during the second annual SlutWalk.(Photo: CFF Archive)

Editor's note: This story was originally published on Nov. 11, 2012.
---
On Wednesday, Mu Sigma Upsilon, in collaboration with the UCF chapter of the National Organization for Women, hosted the second annual SlutWalk at UCF, an event geared toward raising awareness about sexual assault. The march began at Memory Mall where students discussed the tough topic of rape.
Several speakers kicked off the event prior to the walk around campus, including UCF women's a cappella group So Noted, poet Curtis X Meyer, as well as two UCF faculty members. Attendees proudly displayed posters and signs with statements that read My clothes are not my consent and In every language, no means no.
"It's important to show that were standing in solidarity with women who have experienced people telling them that because of what they've worn or because of how they look that is the reason why they've been subjected to something as horrifying and traumatic as rape," freshman Erika Hanley said.
The walk became a national event after a Toronto police officer told law school students women should "avoid dressing like sluts" in order not to be victimized in January of last year. The officer and Toronto Police Department as a whole experienced harsh backlash from the comment.
"Basically he was saying what we were wearing was the reason why we're getting raped. Now, we all know thats actually not the reason because you can be fully covered, there's Islamic countries, and they're still getting raped," graduate student and event chair Ashley Hill said. "It started as a reaction to that, basically saying, you know, instead of teaching women how to dress, teach men not to rape. Consent is sexy and all of that," Hill said.
Event speakers brought to light many aspects of assault that are not typically discussed.
Tava Bingham, coordinator for the Office of Student Involvement, told of her experience in dealing with the emotional burden of sexual assault. She described receiving support from a friend and realizing that she was lucky to be alive. However, Bingham told the crowd, "We have reached a dangerous point in our society when we look for a silver lining in sexual assault."
Wanda Ortiz, a professor in the School of Visual Arts and Design, discussed the definition of the word provoke, and how irrelevant the argument for conservative dress really is.
"Women get raped in sweat pants coming home from the laundromat," she said, illustrating the point of the event and how clothing has nothing to do with provoking sexual assault.
She encouraged students who have experienced rape or sexual assault to consider the messages conveyed in popular music about women and rape, to learn self-defense and, most importantly, to not feel victimized.
An additional recurring theme of the event included bringing attention to the fact that sexual assault affects people of all sexes and genders. Although many attendees were female, male students were also present.
"I think it's important that all of us stand out here and understand that it can happen to anyone, and it's not even just women. Men and women, it can happen to anyone," Hanley said.
Meyer, who is originally from Toronto, aimed to support the event's message through reciting his original spoken-word material.
"Your body is a gift to you and a privilege to others," Meyer told the crowd.
UCFs Victim Services also spoke briefly at the event, informing students about the kind of assistance available for victims of assault. Anyone seeking assistance of this nature may call the hotline at 407-823-1200 any time. Victim Services provides an on-call advocate 24/7, even on holidays, for students who have experienced any type of sexual assault or violence.
Your Online Chiropractic Community
Chiropractic Economics April 28, 2014 
April 28th, 2014 —Nutritional supplement manufacturer Integrative Therapeutics recently announced that they are offering free shipping on all student orders.
“We are excited to offer this added convenience to our student customers,” explains Skyla Vandervest, Education and Events Manager for Integrative Therapeutics. “We understand that students tend to order in smaller quantities and may have historically been limited by our free shipping order minimum.”
Since their founding over 35 years ago, Integrative has been passionate about supporting students and new graduates in their pursuit of building thriving practices.
They offer a variety of resources and opportunities for students, including:
Student Representative Program
The Starter Dispensary Program
The STAIR Integrative Residency Program
Healthnotes Drug-Nutrient Interactions Checker
A $100 graduation gift
Wholesale Pricing
Source: Integrative Therapeutics
Filed Under: Industry News, News 

820 A1A N Highway W18,
Ponte Vedra Beach, FL 32082
Phone 904.285.6020
Fax 904.395.9118
CONTACT US »
Copyright © 2019, All Rights Reserved
Get Chiropractic Economics magazine
delivered to your home or office. Just
fill out our form to request your FREE
subscription for 20 issues a year,
including two annual Buyers Guides.
SUBSCRIBE NOW »



UK

Chris Vasata faces the death penalty (File Photo)
Suspects are still on the loose — and Jupiter police remain tight-lipped about the case — on what happened at 1105 Mohawk Street the night of the Feb. 5 Super Bowl when three people in their 20s were slain.
Jupiter police are not commenting on the specifics of the case.
“We are working with the (Palm Beach County) state attorney’s office,” Jupiter Police Spokesman Brad Vince said.
Jupiter resident Christopher Vasata, so far the only person arrested in the murders that stunned the town, waived his right to a speedy trial June 20.
The state intends to seek the death penalty against Vasata, who for now is the only suspect in the shootings in the Jupiter River Estates neighborhood off Indiantown Road.
Vasata, 24, faces three counts of first-degree murder as well as other felony charges in the shooting deaths of El-Salhy, 24, of Gainesville; Kelli J. Doherty, 20, of Tequesta; and Sean P. Henry, 26, of Jupiter. Charles Vorpagel, 27, who rented the house, was arrested Feb. 9 on a federal firearms charge.
Vasata’s next court hearing is Sept. 11.
READ: Seven key questions about the homicides.
Charlie Vorpagel, 27, the renter of the Mohawk Street house, is being held without bond on federal weapons and drug charges.


 




                                                Research paper published by Loggerhead sea turtle experts:Read it here                                            






                                                Loggerhead Triathlon to close A1A in North County on Saturday morning                                            



 

Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
Basic HTML is allowed. Your email address will not be published.
Subscribe to this comment feed via RSS
 





Sarah Peters is a native of Easton, Pa., and a graduate of Penn State University, where she earned degrees in journalism and political science. She covered local government, education and business news in Warren County, N.J., for two years prior to coming to The Palm Beach Post. She is happy to serve as the community reporter covering Palm Beach Gardens. 


Bill DiPaolo is a native of Boston. Since 1980, he has covered police, politics, trends and just about everything else for Florida newspapers in Hollywood, Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Pensacola and West Palm Beach. A graduate of the University of Florida, he has a master's degree in urban planning from Ball State University. He lives in West Palm Beach with his wife, Carolyn, Senior Editor at The Palm Beach Post. Their daughter Bonnie is attending the University of South Florida, where she is seeking a degree in biology.


            Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
I’ve been through the ups and downs with bitcoin, and I am as certain as ever that the bitcoin revolution is coming, says Tim Draper.
U.S.-based venture capitalist Tim Draper has invested $1.25 million in OpenNode, a bitcoin-only payments processing startup.
In his first interview since taking over the Tezos Foundation, chair Ryan Jesperson is looking toward the launch of its much-hyped new blockchain.
Investor Tim Draper penned an open letter to the SEC today asking for the agency to carve-out exemptions for certain ICOs.
Investor Adam Draper recounts the day the US government sold 30,000 bitcoins at auction – and his father won.
Blockchain startup Factom has raised a $4.2m in new funding as part of a newly announced Series A.
Two years after buying roughly 30,000 BTC, investor Tim Draper is still passionate about the technology as well as competing blockchain offerings.
Bitcoin payroll startup Bitwage has wrapped up a period of fundraising during which it brought in a total of $760,000.
Two-time auction winner Tim Draper has revealed to CoinDesk that he is not participating in today’s auction of more than 44,000 BTC.
Mirror has raised $8.8m in Series A financing to reposition itself as a smart contract trading platform built on bitcoin's blockchain.
Did you never make games about game of thrones?
too much similar to MI
it's a very strange crossover
       Donate

Written by Brandon Turbeville; Originally appeared at Activistpost
The 13th Islamic Summit entitled “Unity And Solidarity For Justice And Peace,” set up by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (IOC) took place on April 10-15 in Istanbul, Turkey and yielded some revealing but certainly not unsuspected news. At the summit, chaired by Turkish President Recep Erdogan, more signs emerged of a Turkish/GCC attempt to not only continue to destabilize Syria but an attempt to extend the destabilization into Eurasia, up to the Russian border, and even inside Russian territory itself.
During the course of the summit, then-Turkish Prime Minister Davitoglu addressed the issues of the “Occupied Islamic Territories,” i.e. Palestine, Nagorno-Karabkh, and Crimea and expressed concerns about the development of those situations. He stated that these areas needed to be rescued via cultural, religious, and “other” means although he was not specific as to what these “other” means might be. He also referred to the Crimean issue as one of the main issues of the summit.
Although the Turkish version of the summit’s communique was not ultimately not accepted by the group, the communique that was produced condemned “Armenian aggression” in Nagorno-Karabkh and expressed “interest” in the Crimean situation.
It should also be noted that Mustafa Dzhemilev, former chairman of the Mejlis Of the Crimean Tatar People, was presented by the summit as the only legitimate representative of the Crimean people. Dzhemilev held a joint meeting with the Turkish and Azeri presidents during the course of the summit.
In addition, King Salmaan of Saudi Arabia was in attendance and was greeted at the airport by Recep Erdogan who later presented the King with an award at an official ceremony.
News organization SouthFront has suggested that Saudi Arabia and Qatar are using Turkey to expand their influence in both Eurasia and, eventually, the EU. SouthFront arguesthat Turkey has accepted this scheme and is currently moving forward in terms of implementation.
Regardless, Turkey’s attempt to stir up the crisis in Ukraine by using Crimea and its Tatar population is nothing new. Remember, on August 1-2, a meeting was convened at the Hotel Billkent in Ankara, Turkey labeled the Second World Congress of the Tatars. This meeting brought together over 200 Tatar NGOs and associations from all over the world. The event was also attended by Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin and Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus. Both officials participated in the event as well.
As Today’s Zaman/Cihan reported in its article, “Crimean Tatars Gather In Ankara To Discuss Ukrainian Crisis,”
Nearly 200 Crimean Tatar nongovernmental organizations and civil society groups gathered in Ankara as part of the Second World Crimean Tatar Congress to discuss the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and the situation of their brethren in Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in February of last year.
The meeting took place on Saturday at Ankara Bilkent Hotel and Congress Center and focused on the dire conditions under which Crimean Tatars have to live in the face of encroaching Russian pressure on their cultural life. The gathering offered an opportunity for lengthy discussions about how to resolve the prolonged conflict in Ukraine and to maintain Tatars’ threatened community rights under the new administration in Crimea.
But, while Russia and the annexation of Crimea were the focus of the meeting, a foolish and potentially dangerous decision was made between Ukraine and Turkey.
At the meeting, it was announced by Mustafa Abdulcemil Cemiloglu, acting leader of the Crimean Tatars as decreed by Ukrainian President Poroshenko, announced the creation of a “Muslim Brigade” to oppose “Crimean separatism,” as well as “human trafficking” and the “transportation of goods near conflict zones.” In other words, the meeting spawned the creation of a terrorist brigade to combat Russian involvement in Crimea and pro-Russian sentiment and activism in the area.
It should be noted that Cemiloglu was a notorious CIA asset and collaborator throughout the years of the Reagan Administration. He was also the former leader of the Crimea Tatar Majlis.
After the announcement was made by Cemiloglu, he was received by Turkish Recep Erdogan, who assured him of Turkey’s full support for the Tatars against Russia. Turkey has been vocal about the “territorial integrity” of Ukraine and has, like the rest of NATO, taken a strong anti-Russian stance on the issue of Ukraine.
The “Muslim Brigade” apparently will be based at Herson, near the Crimean border and was designed to include volunteers and jihadists from a number of other locations in the region – “Tatarstan,” Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Chechnya, and Georgia.
Turkey was not to be left out of the mix, however, since it was committed to donate a number of the jihadists currently operating within its own borders for the purposes of destroying the government of Syria to the new Muslim Brigade in Ukraine.
Indeed, Turkey has already acted on its jihadist-based intervention in Ukraine since, in December 2013, Turkish intelligence sent a number of Tatar jihadists to Ukraine so they would be able to assist the Western color revolution in Kiev where the terrorists acted as “security” for pro-European and anti-Russian protests in the Maidan, often suspected of being the culprits behind a number of violent acts resulting in the violent crackdown by police.
As the Voltaire Network reported in its article “Jihadists In Charge of Crowd Control In Kiev Protests,”
Its not everyday that you stumble onto a fight to the death between birds. I have seen many squabbles between ducks, coots and honeyeaters and of course one sided battles between birds of prey and their victims. But I have not seen a fight to the death between small beautiful songbirds.
I often hear Spotted Pardalotes in the various forests that I explore.  I even get the occasional visitor in my inner city suburb. They have a distinctive call and I more often record them in my logs as heard rather than seen. During spring when they are building their nesting burrows and attending eggs and chicks they become much more visible at the lower levels of the forest. I have a good spot at Moorooduc Quarry  where I can find, observe and photograph the Pardalotes. On a recent visit I walked along my regular burrow track and found a two male pardalotes fighting on the ground. I couldn’t tell which one was the intruder or the burrow owner. The fight resulted in the death of one of them and the other continued to attack until I removed the pardalote when the victor had flown to a nearby branch. I wanted to check the dead bird for the injuries. There was no blood or obvious wounds except both eyes were missing. Once I removed the dead male pardalote and stood back I waited to see whether the other would return – I was still trying to figure who owned the burrow. Probably 5 min later the male returned to the area with a female closely behind. They moved around the area and finally the female ducked into the burrow. My guess is that the victor was the intruder and he brought his mate to inspect this prime position. I had no idea that this beautiful tiny bird had such ferocious fights to the death.
Spotted Pardalote, Moorooduc Quarry, Mt Eliza, Vic
II
Spotted Pardalote battle
IV
V
VI
VII
The victor looking at me like I was next on his hit list…
Pardalote nest burrow
Pardalote nest track, Moorooduc Quarry Reserve, Mt Eliza, Vic
But oh so tragic!
LikeLiked by 1 person
Did the other bird revive?
LikeLike
no, it was killed Sherry
LikeLike
Wow, that’s intense!
LikeLike
it was and very surprising
LikeLike
Wow Malt what an amazing capture! Who would have thought they would have fought like this and poke the eyes out of the opponent. Great captures, and a great discovery of their behaviour.
LikeLiked by 1 person
Thanks Ashley, it was very surprising and interesting 
LikeLiked by 1 person
Dear Malt, This is a very interesting behaviour. Since I’m working on a monography on pardalotes, I need to ask you a thing. Can you send me your e-mail address, please? Thank you for your attention, kind regards, Maurizio
LikeLike
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 




Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 
		                Follow                    


Sun04212019 
Last updateSun, 21 Oct 2018 6pm
There seems to be a problem with our twitter feed on all of our websites and different hosts. https://twitter.com/PHIAtweets
Today's tweets on Tyranny and Subjugation, British regimes:


			Read more: Today's tweets on Tyranny and Subjugation, British regimes:

Click to read the article or blog


			Read more: It's Like a Mystery Novel, You Won't Believe It

Today's tweets on Tyranny, Subjugation, and Gun Rights:


			Read more: Today's tweets on Tyranny, Subjugation, and Gun Rights:

"It seems as if there is a plan or collusion, false allegations in  Sweden to extradite Assange to Sweden and once in Sweden extradition to  the U.S. instead of the U.K. or other British regime extraditing  Assange.


			Read more: Julian Assange's asylum stalemate no nearer resolution one year on

There seems to be a problem with our twitter feed on all of our websites and different hosts. https://twitter.com/PHIAtweets
Today's tweets on Sexual Harassment:


			Read more: Today's tweets on Sexual Harassment:

A blog in response to CBC's news article "U.S. gun control: What's changed 6 months after Newtown?"


			Read more: U.S. gun control: What's changed 6 months after Newtown? CBC - (blog)

"I painted this small and only painting about twenty years ago, it is a simple ocean, wave, and beach painting with a blue sky, clouds, and sun in the background." - Danny Hunt  (see images and video)


			Read more: Painting for Auction to raise funds

Dear Mayor  Bloomberg, We updated our obesity epidemic and sugar page, the information  may help you in court proceedings, addiction like cigarettes, mental  health, bad cholesterol, heart disease, 1 killer of women heart disease,  cancer, diabetes, and the high costs of  obesity.


			Read more: Dear Mayor Bloomberg, We updated our obesity epidemic and sugar page

1. Many Republicans (R) still deny the reality of climate change, and danger linked to mass extinction. 2. Discrimination, more (R) candidates with anti-women and anti-gay rhetoric. 3. (R) house still trying to repeal peoples access to health care. 4. in progress.
British regimes are using energy assault weapons to subjugate or degrade targeted citizens and population while advocating gun control. The same subjugate or degrade strategy is used in Quebec, Pakistan, and Bangladesh.


			Read more: Workplace Psychological Harassment Extended to Criminal Harassment Networks, and Two Homicide...

I believe that the Supreme Court in the U.S. is setting a terrible  presidense, finger prints are not DNA or your unique DNA that big  pharmaceuticals and government want to own. ..


			Read more: DNA VS. Finger Prints

A letter to barrackobama.com, organizing for action and President Barack Obama about immigration, the right to bear arms, and climate change. (Climate Change response letter from White House)


			Read more: Letter to Organizing for Action and President Barack Obama

False pretenses and justification, would writing about the British regimes and exposing tyranny be called a hate  campaign against the British?


			Read more: Facebook bows to campaign groups over 'hate speech'

Creating justification is used in the workplace and in  regimes. In the workplace it can involve participating employees in  regimes it can involve the secret police, organized crime, and even  terrorists to weaken civil rights and freedoms.


			Read more: Creating Chaos and Justification, for action and control

The population is subjugated through organized crime in British regimes and Canada. When targeted by the secret police citizens are subjugated or degraded through repetitive energy assault weapons aimed at inflicting deadly cancers, damaging the brain, and the testicles.
Killing by repetitive energy assault weapons, types of radar.


			Read more: Subjugation or Degradation in Canada, Danny Hunt - (blog)

Stereotypes, discrimination, racism, segregation, hate and rejection  are all linked to repression, and control.


			Read more: STEREOTYPES, TYRANNY, SUBJUGATION - (BLOG)

From what I understand the Kurds were in chemical warfare hell in Iraq and the french are in radar hell in Quebec Canada.

								Page 4 of 19						
Commander Visconti (Vincent Cassel) is a police detective with some dubious methods . . .
This odd film is one of the MUBI selections from the My French Film Festival. It’s odd because on the surface it appears to be a typical polar/crime thriller but it doesn’t ‘feel’ like a genre film. It may be because it is an adaptation of an Israeli novel by Dror Mishani and the adaptation is directed by Erick Zonca as only the third film he has completed since his international arthouse hit The Dreamlife of Angels (La vie rêvée des anges, 1998). The lead player of that film, Élodie Bouchez, is the fourth lead in this new film – in a secondary role behind three very established French stars.
The most immediately recognisable of the three stars is Sandrine Kiberlain as Solange, a depressed mother in her late 40s with a young teenage daughter who has learning difficulties. Her older child, Dany is a high school student who has gone missing and her husband, a merchant seaman, is away on a trip. When the boy’s disappearance is reported to the police it becomes a case for Commander Visconti played against type by an almost unrecognisable Vincent Cassel and seemingly lurking around every corner is a neighbour and Dany’s sometime tutor Yann Belaille played by Roman Duris – also looking very different. What follows is a drama featuring these three powerful actors.
. . . this includes his treatment of a parent (Solange – Sandrine Kiberlain) whose son goes missing
The settings of the film are also unusual. Visconti is based in a police station in the city but the boy’s family live in an apartment block by a wood, presumably in an outer suburb and at times this felt like the setting for a Nordic Noir. If your recent experience of French policing on TV is the wonderful serial Engrenages (Spiral) you may also be a little baffled by the police operations this film. How does Visconti keep his job? This narrative is only marginally interested in police procedures. Visconti is an alcoholic living alone and battling with his son who appears to be operating a semi-pro drugs business from his high school. The Commander is dishevelled with greasy unruly hair and a thick beard. His appearance and demeanour suggest that he is permanently suffering from hangovers and his interrogation of witnesses in their homes often includes a request for whisky. Part way through the narrative he is taken off the case and replaced by a colleague with a more conventional approach. But this doesn’t appear to prevent Visconti carrying on his investigation.
. . . and the school teacher (Yann Belaille – Romain Duris) who admittedly does behave suspiciously
Visconti becomes interested, perhaps too interested, in the creepy neighbour/teacher. Romain Duris is similarly disguised by a thick bushy beard (though this one is carefully groomed) and large spectacles. What does he know? What is he up to now? Most of the time this narrative is a mystery. Dany can’t be found. Is he still alive? In one sense Zonca seems to be teasing us with possible red herrings but perhaps he is most interested in the three central characters, each of whom has secrets. The case of Dany’s disappearance is eventually solved – or at least there is a confession, but not a clear resolution that ties up all the loose ends.
I’m not sure what to make of this film. As someone very interested in this kind of procedural/rogue cop etc. crime fiction, I found it very interesting, especially because of the three leads. But I do wonder whether a general audience, either of genre cinema or arthouse cinema, will enjoy the film.

Delorme (Karine Vanasse) and Cardinal (Billy Campbell) with ‘Red’ (Alex Paxton-Beesley)
Cardinal is a Canadian TV police procedural series which has just completed its second season on BBC4 in the UK in the usual Saturday night slot for European noir crime serials. I had watched most of Season 1, but for various reasons didn’t finish it. I must now go back because I was very engaged by Season 2. For the last couple of episodes I switched the subtitles on and I found it much easier to follow the dialogue. The series is broadcast in both English and French in Canada I think. I don’t know if the French is dubbed. I assume that the English language version I watched was synch sound but it does follow that unfortunate Hollywood convention which allows actors to mumble. Apart from that I found it impressive.
The first two seasons of the show are adaptations of novels by Giles Blunt and the third and fourth seasons are expected to follow in a similar way. The first two books each get 6 x 42 episodes or just over 4 hours of screen time, just about enough to be classified as ‘long-form’ TV narratives, allowing a literary or cinematic pacing. Blunt himself is linked to the writing team on the adaptations (which don’t necessarily follow the order of the original novels). The setting is the fictional city of Algonquin Bay which appears to be very closely based on Blunt’s home town of North Bay in North-East Ontario, some 330 kms north of Toronto. North Bay is on the Canadian Shield giving a distinctive landscape and on the shore of Lake Nipissing. The area is part of the homeland of the Nipissing First Nation of Ojibwe and Algonquin peoples and this is an important element in Blackfly Season.
A press briefing by Cardinal with Sergeant Noelle Dyson (Kristen Thomson). I think that’s Ontario’s state flag on the right – still using the red ensign?
The central character is John Cardinal (Billy Campbell), a Detective from the Algonquin Bay Police who in Season 1 returns from Toronto to re-open an old case. He is under a cloud of suspicion and it will turn out that his new partner Lise Delorme, a Québécoise played by Karin Vanasse, is also checking on Cardinal for an internal investigation. Cardinal’s wife Catherine has been suffering from a bi-polar disorder and in Season 2 it will emerge that she has something to do with the suspicions about Cardinal’s activities in Toronto. This set-up suggests a familiar generic device – the younger woman who is super-efficient is partnered with the older man who has all the problems associated with a sick wife (and feelings of responsibility for a daughter at university in Toronto). It’s summer in North Ontario and the blackfly are biting when Cardinal and Delorme are called to investigate the case of a young woman who has been shot in the woods. A bullet has lodged in the young woman’s skull but she has survived although she has lost all memories of how she got into the woods. Gradually it becomes clear that a new group of heroin dealers has moved into the region and are now competing with the established drugs network run by the Northern Raiders bikers’ gang. How does Red (the girl in the woods) fit in with the drugs war? And is she connected to what appears to be some form of ritual killing with a mutilated body found in a cave?
There are a number of elements in this series which interest me. Aesthetically Cardinal follows some of the familiar features of Nordic/North European noirs. There are aerial shots of forests and lakes stretching for miles as a lone vehicle follows a narrow road. This could easily be Sweden in summer. The music and sound mix (another factor sometimes making dialogue difficult to hear) is another reminder of The Swedish/Danish serial The Bridge with a title song recalling both The Bridge and the French serial Witnesses through its ethereal voice and strings. This song, ‘Familiar’, is by the Danish singer/composer Agnes Obel who has contributed songs to various TV productions in Germany, Australia, UK and US. Todor Kobakov is the composer of the overall score for the series. The Nordic connections do work with the summer landscape but are perhaps even closer in Season 1, set in the harsh winter and reminiscent of the Iceland of Trapped (2015).
A still from Season 1 showing Det. Jerry Commanda (Glen Gould) on the right
The story in Season 2 has many familiar elements including the drugs war, questions about possible corruption in the police force and a killer with childhood memories that ‘return’ in unfortunate ways. The intriguing ‘difference’ is the setting in a region with First Nation peoples. The third member of the investigating team is Detective Jerry Commanda (Glen Gould) who is cast as what the character himself calls a ‘native’ police officer. Glen Gould is listed on Wikipedia as an ‘Aboriginal Canadian actor of Mi’kmaq and Italian descent’, born in Nova Scotia. I was intrigued to see also (via IMDb) a casting call for Season 1 of Cardinal in which roles were listed, specifying ‘Aboriginal Canadian’ roles and roles open to ‘all ethnicities’. Commanda uses the names of different First Nations as well as ‘native’ and also refers to various ‘res’ or First Nations reservations. I wish I knew more about recent Canadian debates about First Nations and I’m intrigued as to how First Nations issues are developed in film and TV narratives and how the Canadian approach compares with that in Australia and New Zealand as well as in Scandinavia with Sami peoples. I don’t want to say too much about how the narrative develops in Cardinal because it could spoil the viewing experience.
Cardinal seems to have gone down pretty well in Canada and it has been sold to Sweden, Spain, Germany, Australia and the US. I’ll certainly look out for Seasons 3 and 4 and I’m also now intrigued to read Giles Blunt’s novels. Here’s the Canadian trailer for Season 2:

Sandra (Marie Dompnier) and Justin (Jan Hammenecker) find a bus filled with frozen male corpses as passengers at the start of WITNESSES season 2
Witnesses is a global crime/mystery series in the now familiar long-form narrative format. It has inevitably been compared to various other examples of what is becoming a global model, derived from the success of The Killing and The Bridge. Like the Scandinavian serials, the second season was broadcast on BBC4 in the UK ending a few weeks ago. (Season 1 was broadcast on Channel 4.) The key common element is a pair of police investigators in which the woman is the lead figure. What makes Witnesses ‘different’, at least in the first two seasons/series/serials, is the setting and the inclusion of some of the tropes of the horror film.
The location is Northern France. The police team is based in Lille and the action seems to range across the whole Nord-Pas de Calais region with an emphasis on the coast in both series. In fact, the action spreads all the way to Mont-Saint-Michel and Granville in Normandy several hundred kilometres away. The distances are so great that they detract from the realism of some of the plot devices, but conversely heighten the fantasy elements. Some of the Scandinavian narratives make use of similar settings but it occurred to me that Witnesses might also share something with the Welsh serial Hinterland. A second possible reference for me was the stories of Fred Vargas whose crime novels have the same mystery elements and sometimes use similar locations (e.g. by the coast or in rural Normandy). Although Vargas has been adapted in France, I’m not aware of any overseas sales.
The two central characters are Sandra Winckler (Marie Dompnier) and Justin (Jan Hammenecker). Sandra is the typical ‘maverick’ cop and Justin is the more stable partner who is generally in the background , but whose personal life is also explored. Each of the two seasons so far features a similar credit sequence with Sandra striding towards the camera along a ‘boardwalk’ past a row of bathing huts. She then reaches a dilapidated hut which blocks her path and she opens its doors to reveal a fantasy figure. In the first season this is a wolf (see below) and in the second three strange children. The music in the title sequence by the UK ‘trip-hop’ artist Tricky with Francesca Belmonte has an ethereal tone which underlines the potential fantasy of the stories. The song’s title is ‘We Don’t Die’ and the lyrics fit the stories so well I’m intrigued to see what the writer-creators Marc Herpoux and Hervé Hadmar (who also directs) will come up with next. The first story begins with the discovery of the corpses of people recently buried but now dug up and arranged in family groups in public places such as a show house on a new estate. As Sandra investigates she uncovers a connection to her former boss in Lille who has become something of a local celebrity.

In Season 2, the story begins with the discovery of a bus parked on a country road. Inside the bus are 15 frozen corpses of men who disappeared some time ago. Eventually the investigation will uncover a complex interweaving of stories which will eventually entrap Sandra herself and in which she will team up with a woman who herself disappeared and is then discovered three years later, unable to remember what happened to her. This is Catherine Keemer, rather confusingly played by the wonderful Audrey Fleurot, the rather tempestuous lawyer from Engrenages (Spiral). My confusion was because Series 6 of Engrenages followed Witnesses a week later on BBC4 and I found myself ‘catching up’ on Witnesses while watching the first episodes of Engrenages. Sandra and Catherine end up sleuthing together in Witnesses and a rather stylish couple they make – two tall, slim, thirty-somethings with flowing tresses and a similar dress sense.
Catherine (Audrey Fleurot) and Sandra (Marie Dompnier) together
Apart from the characterisation around Sandra and Catherine, there two noticeable aspects of this second narrative which distinguish it from similar series. First are the aesthetics, dominated by occasional uses of aerial shots of the coast and forests of the region, the cinematography in general and the use of music, the overall effect of which is to create a sense of mystery and unease. Ironically, there is a sense of the romantic and the gothic, even when action takes place around a wind farm. The mystery/horror tropes are signified in several ways, all of which take us into the complex plotting around the history of an orphanage located on Mont Saint-Michel. This is a great location (and a world heritage site). The best recent orphanage narrative is arguably El orfanato (Spain 2007) and this one uses some of the same tropes with drawings by children and photographs from some time ago. The children seem to have been fascinated by the story of the Minotaur. The focus on children also draws in both Catherine and Sandra. Catherine is close to her eldest child, a young teenage daughter and Sandra has two younger daughters. I won’t spoil the plot any further but the links seem clear as well as the dangers for the two women. I’m always intrigued by the ways in which these kinds of crime narratives share sometimes quite specific plot ideas and details with others released around the same time. Witnesses reminded me of elements in both Jo Nesbø’s The Snowman (2017) and the UK TV series The Fall (2013- ). Witnesses is a female-centred narrative created, written and directed by men. That’s just an observation, but I’m now intrigued by Engrenages 6 in which Audrey Fleurot is again a leading character in a narrative with Caroline Proust as top-billed – but with a largely male supporting cast. Gender is clearly an issue in the episodes I’ve seen so far and perhaps it’s time to think again about gender and crime fiction?
I enjoyed Witnesses but I think it was too long (8 x 1 hour episodes) and too complicated. By the end I had forgotten elements of the first two episodes and I’m not sure I fully appreciated the narrative resolution. The first season was only six episodes and that seemed right.
Esther and Julien in court
After burying myself in Patricia Highsmith adaptations for a couple of weeks, it was quite refreshing to switch to this little gem of a Georges Simenon adaptation. The Blue Room stars Mathieu Almaric and he directs the film himself. The film is only 75 minutes long but none of the time is wasted.
Julien (Mathieu Almaric) is the owner of a business selling and renting out agricultural equipment in Central France. He has an attractive modern house, a beautiful wife and child but he has met again the girl he desired at school. She is now helping to run a pharmacy in a nearby town and she has an older husband who is ailing. She is very much up for an affair and the couple meet for afternoons together in a local hotel with a ‘Blue Room’ that becomes their regular site for passion.
The film is presented as a sequence of short scenes with ellipses. It reminded me somehow of Chris Marker’s La jetée (France 1962) – which is a narrative made up of still images. The story is narrated via flashbacks – Julien’s memories – and through the questioning by the local examining magistrate and a prison psychologist after a crime has been committed. Finally, there is a court scene in a traditional small town courtroom with locals crammed in to witness events. Much of the interest in the film is in its formal precision. The aspect ratio is Academy 1.37:1 and Almaric explains the reasons for this in the film’s Press Notes. This choice seems to be becoming more common. For me, it worked as this is a ‘chamber film’ with a clear sense of entrapment and the squarish ‘enclosed’ screen space seemed appropriate. Almaric says that the panoramic feel of widescreen would have created something different. The other two factors are the use of carefully chosen musical scoring from Grégoire Hetzel and photography that depends on many quite static shots composed by Christophe Beaucarne.
‘Real’ bodies
This kind of film defeats some conventional perspectives. I’ve seen it described as an ‘erotic thriller’. IMDb lists the various classifications in different territories. In the US, the MPAA has it as ‘R’, presumably because there is some full-frontal nudity (‘graphic nudity’!). In the UK, the BBFC has it as a ’15’ . In Germany it is ’12’ and in France it is for ‘Tous publics’.  The film isn’t directly ‘erotic’ and the nudity is post-coital – I’m not sure it is a ‘thriller’ either, although there is one scene that might make you jump. What is transgressive is that the nude bodies are presented in a realist way. It’s a hot day. Sex has made the lovers sweat, there may be semen and there is certainly the drama of a spot of blood dropped on a white towel – a lip has been bitten in the heat of passion. Any eroticism is really in the mind, in the thrill of the secrecy of an affair and in the woman’s open desire – and the man’s acquiescence. Esther is played by Stéphanie Cléau who is also credited as co-writer of the film. She is physically taller than Julien and also more confident and assured in herself. I don’t think she is a type as such, even though we learn little about her – and what we do know comes from Julien’s memories. (I say this because some US reviews refer to ‘similar’ Hollywood genre movies which I think work quite differently.) Stéphanie Cléau is not a film actor. Her experience is in theatre as a writer and indeed there is something compellingly different about her brave performance. Almaric says that since Julien’s wife Delphine is played by an actor (Léa Drucker), it was important that Esther wasn’t a ‘known face’ because then it would be a contest between two actors. Esther is the initiator of the way the affair moves – Julien is in some ways the ‘willing victim’. All three leads are excellent.
Julien with his wife Delphine and daughter Suzanne on holiday
On one level this is the story of how an affair can destroy a marriage, mapped out in the clinical investigations by a magistrate and a psychologist in prison. On a second level it is a cinephile’s treat, a delirious mix of influences and connections. Simenon’s novel comes from the early 1960s and it is a familiar story he had honed over many years. He’s been adapted many times and Amalric tells of how he acquired the rights at a time when he had a gap in projects and the chance to make a chamber piece in a short time. The most obvious lineage for the ideas in the film is from Simenon to Chabrol via Hitchcock. There is that same sense of a bourgeois affair, especially in small-town France. Rather than a thriller though, it is like a mystery – a ‘whydunit’. We get strong clues to how one crime might have been committed but we aren’t sure how another might have happened. Even more of a mystery/intrigue is why Julien would stray from his wife and child. In the most memorable line from the film, Julien reflects, “Life is different when you live it and when you go back over it after”. The trailer below offers a good sense of the formal qualities of the film. I’m struck again by the power of the music to suggest or perhaps to question emotions. Amongst a string of influences (Preminger, Fritz Lang) Almaric and Hetzel have created a blend of Hitchcock and Bernard Herrmann with Truffaut’s use of Georges Delerue in La femme d’à côté (1974).
This is a film to watch and re-watch. In the UK the film has been in a handful of cinemas (Picturehouses claims it provided one of their busiest ‘Discovery Tuesday’ audiences) and is also available on VOD.
The film’s trailer (in the correct ratio – the US trailers falsely represent the film)
The Italian poster for the film.
This extraordinary film is an adaptation of Patricia Highsmith’s third novel The Blunderer published in 1954 in between The Price of Salt (that later became Carol) and The Talented Mr. Ripley. The French title means ‘The Murderer’ – I’ve also shown the English, Italian and German titles in this post. As far as I can see, the film follows the novel fairly closely – shifting the action to the area around Nice in the Alpes-Maritimes region of France, but keeping the names of the characters. I confess that I was quite surprised that the behaviour of the characters in the film was indeed based on Highsmith’s characters – but then I shouldn’t be surprised. The film’s narrative is actually very recognisably ‘Highsmith’, but the presentation is definitely odd.
Walter (Maurice Ronet) with the music student Ellie (Marina Vlady)
In outline we have the familiar Highsmith model – two men linked in some strange way, involving murder and with the female characters mainly functional rather than ‘active’. The wonderfully named Melchior Kimmel is a bookseller who one night murders his wife after arranging an alibi. An architect, Walter Saccard, is trapped in what he feels to be a painful marriage and is chasing a young music student. He reads about the murder of Kimmel’s wife in Nice Matin and decides to visit the bookshop. Later he investigates Kimmel’s alibi and sets in motion the extraordinary incidents that will tie the two men together. The third crucial (male) figure in the narrative is a deranged police detective, Corbi – the like of which I’ve rarely seen before. Highsmith certainly doesn’t do police procedurals! I won’t spoil the narrative any more if you want to read the novel.
The German poster – emphasising Kimmel’s thick glasses
Co-productions were common in France in the early 1960s, especially with Italy and Germany. (In 1963 there were 36 ‘French’ productions and 105 ‘co-productions’ listed for the French film industry –Encyclopedia of European Cinema, ed Ginette Vincendeau, Cassell/BFI 1995.) In this case, the co-production was presumably a factor in the casting of Gert Froebe as Kimmel. Others in the audience expressed the view that Froebe was dubbed (he swears in German several times) and that Yvonne Furneaux (who had been at Oxford and worked in the UK film industry) was also dubbed as Saccard’s wife Clara. My poor ear for French couldn’t distinguish if this was the case – much of the dialogue seemed to be shouted anyway! The important production issue is really that this is an example of what François Truffaut famously dismissed as ‘le cinéma de papa’. Le meurtrier was scripted by the team of Jean Aurenche and Pierre Bost, Truffaut’s main villains, and directed by Claude Autant-Lara, a director he put in the same category. Truffaut wasn’t alone. Most of the critics on Cahiers du cinéma loathed directors like Autant-Lara. Jacques Rivette in 1957:
I think that Autant-Lara, Clément and Clouzot are all sickening . . . people who have been corrupted. (quoted in Cahiers du Cinéma: The 1950s, ed Jim Hillier BFI, 1985: 39)
Rivette was arguing that Autant-Lara and the others were simply interested in making money and that they would refuse to work ‘on the street’ like Rossellini, making ‘social films’. This perspective needs to be placed carefully in context. Like much of the Cahiers polemic there are many issues to be aware of. Truffaut’s charge was that the ‘cinema of old men’ was too attached to literary sources, that it relied on tight scripts and studio sets and that it peddled a form of middle-brow entertainment with little artistic expression. Truffaut himself used similar kinds of ‘literary texts’ early in his career, ranging from literary novels to Série Noire thrillers and his true cinematic auteur, Alfred Hitchcock, had already adapted Patricia Highsmith’s Strangers on a Train in 1951. By 1963 when Le meurtrier appeared, Truffaut’s charge had lost much of its impact following René Clément’s Highsmith adaptation Plein soleil, released in 1960. Clément was another of the ‘old guard’ but his version of The Talented Mr. Ripley was in glorious colour, had a great Nino Rota score, camerawork by Henri Decaë (who photographed Truffaut’s 400 Blows) and outstanding performances by a young Alain Delon and Maurice Ronet. In fact it has been claimed to be Highsmith’s favourite of the adaptations of her work (she died in 1995). Seeing it today Plein soleil looks as fresh, youthful and exciting as anything from La nouvelle vague. But is this true of Le meurtrier?
Walter (Maurice Ronet) and his wife Clara (Yvonne Furneaux)
Much of Le meurtrier is shot on location around Nice and these scenes feel ‘modern’, but the interiors are shot at the Victorine Studio in Nice and these aspects do feel quite old-fashioned. The reality is that Autant-Lara and his collaborators were indeed ‘old men’ as seen by Truffaut. The director was nearing 60, the writers were roughly the same age or older. Many of the others in the creative team were born before 1914. This doesn’t make them poor filmmakers but it does help to explain part of the animosity of young critics who wanted themselves to be young filmmakers. Two other bits of trivia may or may not be interesting. The shoot included two couples. Marina Vlady (who plays Ellie, the music student) had been married young to Robert Hossein who plays the deranged detective. They had already split up by 1959. Later Vlady would become known as the central ‘character’ in Jean-Luc Godard’s Two or Three Things I Know About Her (France 1967). Yvonne Furneaux married the director of photography on the film Jacques Watteau in 1962 – before or during the shoot. Maurice Ronet is the real star of the film and he seems to have been happy to appear in the films of the ‘old guard’ and those of the New Wave filmmakers.
Interrogation by the detective Corbi (Robert Hossein) of Kimmel (Gert Froebe). Ronet is behind left and in the far background is Harry Meyen as Toni (a witness)
I don’t think all this background necessarily ‘explains’ why the films feels so ‘odd’ but it helps. I was certainly ‘entertained’ by the film, even if I found some scenes to be quite poorly executed. Highsmith’s narratives are often dependent on very unexpected behaviour by characters and by coincidences accidents that might be expected in melodramas. In the other adaptations these are acceptable and perhaps hardly noticed because of the performances and the maintenance of a tone that accommodates the violence and the black comedy. I wasn’t sure that was the case in Le meurtrier. Sometimes it was impossible to ‘suspend disbelief’. Who, it might be asked is ‘The Blunderer’ of the title? It could conceivably be any of the three leading male characters. Kimmel is overweight and very shortsighted (his glasses remind us of Strangers on a Train). Saccard lies very badly and makes a string of mistakes in what he does and how he talks to the detective – and the detective himself is just extraordinary. The music score has been interpreted as an attempt at the kind of scoring used by Hitchcock, especially with Herrmann. I didn’t think it worked and it only made it more difficult for me to work out what kind of film this was.
I understand that Keith Withall is going to write something about the overall technical aspects of the prints in this season. In this case, we had been ‘warned’ that the DCP had been created from a worn 35mm print and that we might expect scratches. These turned out to be very minor. There were two issues for me. The print was quite soft and faded – as if there was a lack of contrast in the black and white images. This meant that several interior scenes which appeared to have been lit/designed to create film noir images were instead simply grey or murky. The second issue was that the presentation was supposed to be 2.35:1 as the film was shot on ‘Franscope’. To my eye, although it looked like a ‘Scope shape, the image was squashed vertically so that the characters were slightly flattened and ‘fattened’. Gert Froebe became even more immense, but so did Maurice Ronet and Marina Vlady, the ‘glamorous couple’. I’m not sure how this could have happened and it could have been an issue about projector settings and the DCP as much as with the transfer from film. Finally, as with the two previous screenings, the mono sound seemed ‘bright’ and ‘harsh’. These niggles aside, however, I’m grateful to have had the chance to see this example of mainstream French cinema of the early 1960s.
For details of the ‘Adapting Miss Highsmith’ Season go to the website.
Lisa (Brigitte Fossey) and Phillip (Helmut Griem) in a publicity shot taken at the railway station when Phillip returns from prison in The Glass Cell
My second Patricia Highsmith adaptation in the touring film season was The Glass Cell at HOME in Manchester. This time it looked to be a DCP from an old video copy. The image was degraded but the subtitles were pristine digital and the sound was the same loud and ‘over bright’ mono as at the Hyde Park in Leeds in Deep Water (France 1981). The image didn’t really do justice to the work of cinematographer Robby Müller and, as with editor Peter Przygodda, this was his second Highsmith adaptation in a row, following Wim Wenders’ Der Amerikanische Freund (1977), based on the novel Ripley’s Game (1974). The Wenders connection is also carried through in the shape of director Hans W. Geissendörfer who was a founder member of the Filmverlag der Autoren which produced or distributed many of the films of the ‘New German Cinema’. The Glass Cell is a more ‘popular’/conventional film than most of the New German Cinema films, but it is still a film that deserves attention. The ‘production supervisor’ on the film was Bernd Eichinger, one of the most important figures in German cinema from the mid-1970s up until his death in 2011. The three leading players were all well-known in European cinema. Both Helmut Griem and Dieter Laser were leading German players with international production experience and Brigitte Fossey was borrowed from French cinema.
The film’s plot is familiar and very much what we might expect from Highsmith (it’s an adaptation of a 1964 Highsmith novel with the same title) – it even includes the train which brings Phillip Braun (Helmut Griem) back to Frankfurt after a five-year prison sentence for causing death and injury through shoddy work as an architect on a building project. Quickly explained in an expressionist flashback in the first few minutes of the film, this is quite difficult to grasp in terms of detail and I’m not sure that the subtitles explain enough about the legal questions. Phillip is still convinced that he was set up by Lasky (Walter Kohut) the crooked accountant/speculator on the building project. Somehow, a large sum of money is missing and the assumption is that Phillip has taken it and used cheap and unsafe substitute materials. During his nearly five years ‘inside’ Phillip has suffered mentally and also seems to have lost something of his status as husband and father with his wife Lisa (Brigitte Fossey) and his son Timmie, both of whom seeming to have fallen for the slick lawyer David Reinalt (Dieter Laser) –  who was supposedly Phillip’s top legal counsel in his defence. Reinalt still maintains that Lasky is behind all Phillip’s problems. He tries to help Phillip find a job, but also seems to be overly supportive of Lisa and Timmie.
Lasky and Phillip have both taken part in a police line-up and the officer in charge (Bernhard Wicki) knows something doesn’t add up
As in Deep Water, Highsmith’s story is about a faltering marriage in which the husband is prompted to take drastic action. In this case, however, there is a more acute police presence placing the criminals in jeopardy. I won’t spoil the narrative pleasure, but I found the resolution of the narrative curiously satisfying. There are several recurring Highsmith tropes and direct similarities with Deep Water. Once again there is a bright child of the marriage – Timmie plays the flute and he gives a performance attended by his parents. There is a party where Phillip loses control. As in Der Amerikanische Freund, one of the marriage partners is engaged in art work. Lisa decorates pots and she works in a bookshop. There is mileage in the possibility of an expressive mise en scène based around artworks but because of the murky print it was difficult to see much detail. The whole film is dark and brooding (underlined by the soundtrack early on) but whether deliberate or a function of the degraded image, I can’t be sure. The main action is set in mid-winter so the darkness is realistic. In his notes on the touring season’s website, Pasquale Iannone praises Müller’s streetscapes and there is indeed a deep sense of gloom and despair in Helmut Griem’s walks through the city. As Iannone also points out, the adaptation changes the novel by focusing much more on the ‘post prison’ events, but heightens our understanding of Phillip’s internal anguish by having the letters to him in prison from Lisa read out on the soundtrack. The violent action in the narrative is well-handled and one scene in particular in a raucous beer hall is very effective. Other scenes in apartment blocks feel Hitchcockian in chance encounters with potential witnesses – a nice bit of play with a dog in a lift.
I enjoyed the film despite the image quality and, as in Deep Water, the real pleasure came from the performances and the direction. Helmut Griem as the central character is excellent with a look of utter calm that suggests both coldness and possibility of despair. Brigitte Fossey is equally compelling. I’m definitely going to try to see more of the films in this season. The Glass Cell was a West German entry for Best Foreign Language film in the 1979 Academy Awards. There are four more films in the season coming to HOME and also more screenings at the Hyde Park in Leeds, Showroom, Sheffield and Rio, Dalston and other venues. Please support this excellent season.
Buddy Guy and Tommy Lee Jones ‘In the Electric Mist’
Here is a good example of what can happen when a respected European director, who appreciates aspects of American culture, makes an American film that is dumped onto DVD by its (independent) US distributor and castigated by fans of US genre films. What’s worse in this case is that the film is an adaptation of one of the best books by a celebrated American writer of genre fiction and that the film features a stellar cast. It’s hard not to feel that a lot of people are not getting the respect they deserve because there are far too many ‘tunnel vision’ Hollywood fans out there. On the other hand, the distributor may have been right to foresee problems – but why did they put up money to help finance the film and agree to a distribution deal then? It’s likely that the film would have done better in a French language version. In fact, I don’t know if it was dubbed in France – where most of the tickets were sold.
In the Electric Mist is an adaptation of James Lee Burke’s novel In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead, first published in 1993. It is the sixth story about Louisiana police detective Dave Robicheaux. The novel series has recently seen its twentieth entry (and these are not short novels). Shooting began in 2007 and updating the story to a post-Katrina world was just one of the changes to the novel made by co-writers Jerzy Kromolowski & Mary Olson-Kromolowski. Bertrand Tavernier initiated the project for his own company, Little Bear, with the American producer Michael Fitzgerald and the backing of the French TV channel TFI. Tavernier directed the film himself and it was shot by Bruno de Keyzer. Tavernier is one of the most ‘outward-looking’ of auteurs in France. He is one of the few French filmmaker-critics to have had kind words for British Cinema and he has made films in both the UK (Death Watch 1980) and the US (Mississippi Blues 1983) earlier in his career. He has a previous US crime fiction adaptation to his credit with Coup de torchon (France 1981), a successful film based on Jim Thompson’s notorious 1964 novel Pop. 1280.
There are two real issues at stake in the reception of In the Electric Mist in the US (and UK). The first concerns James Lee Burke and the second the US audience’s take on Tavernier’s approach. As I’ve indicated Burke is a prolific and celebrated writer. His website is unusually commercial for a writer (it offers ‘JLB’ merchandising!) but also presents his array of publications. As well as the 20 Robicheaux novels there are 9 novels about characters in the Holland family of lawyers and Texas Rangers and a further 5 ‘standalone’ novels plus collections of short stories. Over the years I’ve read many of the novels and I recently read The Wayfaring Stranger (2014), one of the ‘Holland Family’ stories set in the late 1940s. I enjoyed it very much and it was this reading that sent me back to thinking about In the Electric Mist. Burke’s strengths are his detailed descriptions of a range of memorable characters, his deep knowledge of the history of communities in Louisiana, Texas and now Montana and his commitment to what in the US are seen as ‘liberal views’. Each of Burke’s protagonists are ‘decent’ men with fatal flaws (often involving alcohol and a disregard for ‘proper’ procedures). All these protagonists seem to have had  colourful childhoods and to be steeped in those community histories with strong commitment to forms of natural justice – i.e. against bigots, racists, fascists etc. – usually driving the narrative. The US book-buying public is large enough to allow Burke to have developed a significant readership who agree with (or at least tolerate) his politics. But what about the cinema audience? IMDB has comments by some of the right-wing trolls that Burke must recognise he attracts. More of a problem for me is that most of the narratives have a very familiar structure as well as familiar characters. Burke’s heroes often know the villains because they grew up with them. And they are also vulnerable because the villain invariably attacks/abducts the hero’s partner/children/parents etc. I can enjoy the novels as long as I have a big gap between reading them. Even so, like many others, I think they are all filmable and I’m surprised there haven’t been more adaptations. The only others I’m aware of are the 1996 Heaven’s Prisoners with Alec Baldwin as Robicheaux and a TV film of Two for Texas (1998) with Kris Kristofferson, a historical narrative featuring one of the Holland family. (There is also a 2015 short film based on a Burke short story, Winter Light.)
The relative lack of adaptations must have meant some anticipation for In the Electric Mist. Tavernier took a great deal of care in casting the film and in selecting locations. He took what is a broadly European approach and tried to cast actors from the South – and as far as possible from Burke’s ‘narrative territory’. Robicheaux is played by Tommy Lee Jones from Texas, his wife Bootsie by Mary Steenburgen from Arkansas. Other actors include Ned Beattie from Kentucky, John Goodman from Missouri (but living in New Orleans) and blues singer and guitarist Buddy Guy (born in Louisiana). Levon Helm from Arkansas plays the Confederate General Hood. Characters speak in thick accents using cajun French creole and other local speech forms. The music includes several zydeco tracks (the Black version of Cajun music) by Clifton Chenier. I can see this might cause problems and I switched the English subs on to watch the UK TV broadcast.
Allied to the use of language, Tavernier composes several scenes in long shot to create a rather different pacing for what viewers might assume is to be a typical crime fiction film. Most alienating of all, the script doesn’t ‘explain’ much – the audience has to pick up the clues. The plot involves the usual James Lee Burke ingredients. The action takes place in Iberia Parish where the ‘reformed’ alcoholic Robicheaux is a police officer who also runs a local bait shop and fishing operation. Three seemingly separate narratives develop. Robicheaux himself begins to see and then interact with a group of apparitions – a band of Confederate soldiers led by Texan General Hood. This is an example of the historical liberties Burke allows himself. Levon Helm was far too old to play the real Hood, who didn’t move to Louisiana until the Civil War was over. Robicheaux also ‘remembers’ seeing, as a child, a shackled Black man being shot running away from a police officer. This is prompted by the discovery of a skeleton with shackles which is ‘unearthed’ by Katrina’s floodwater. Robicheaux is officially involved in the investigation of the murder of a young bar girl. Finally, the local community is also disrupted by the arrival of a film crew (with John Sayles in a cameo as the director). Robicheaux’s bait shop is attractive to the film’s star (Peter Sarsgard) a frequently drunk young man who rent’s Robicheaux’s boat with his girlfriend (Kelly McDonald). Robicheaux is suspicious because of the involvement of a local gangster Julie Balboni (John Goodman) as an investor in the film. Robicheaux has known Balboni since childhood.
It’s an interesting story with unusual ingredients. The cast are all terrific, the film looks good and the music is great. I wish I could have seen this version in a UK cinema (but I’m grateful for the subs on TV). Many European audiences and filmmakers really love the best of Hollywood. Unfortunately the admiration is not always reciprocated. If you get the chance, try to see the full-length version of this film.
Roger Allam (in the hat) and Shaun Evans in ‘Endeavour’
I’ve just caught an episode of Endeavour, ITV’s Inspector Morse prequel series. It’s a very impressive production with an excellent leading pair of Shaun Evans as the young Morse and Roger Allam as DI Thursday. Tonight’s episode was set in January 1966 with generally very good production design but thankfully not a soundtrack packed with pop songs. The musical references, appropriately for Morse, were mainly classical but there were two good live performances of r&b/blues in a nightclub. Barrington Pheloung’s music was always an important ingredient of the original series.
My interest here is to raise questions about genre and the global market for crime fiction TV. Inspector Morse (Carlton/ITV 1987-2000)  was in many ways an influential TV export, not least because of its relatively large budget (arguably more than for domestic UK cinema features on an hourly basis). The most obvious reference for Endeavour in terms of period setting and narrative potential is the BBC series Inspector George Gently which began in 2007 with Martin Shaw in the lead. I was struck tonight by the central narrative thread which was shared by Inspectors Thursday and Gently as tough London cops who have had to leave London to work in Oxford and Tyneside respectively, but who are now facing up to the past they thought they had left behind. The London underworld, property development and town planning corruption as seen in the Endeavour episode are very much authentic 1960s crime narrative material. Endeavour scores because of the single-minded moral strength of the young Morse, very different to the unpleasant reactionary values of young Sergeant Bacchus in George Gently. I like George Gently but I do wonder if it doesn’t draw a little too much on the nostalgia repertoire of Heartbeat and its spin-off The Royal which filled ITV’s early evening Sunday slot. These were comic cop and doc dramas set in North Yorkshire in the 1960s, which fed voraciously on 60s nostalgia for cars, pop songs and other aspects of popular culture (I say this from only the very briefest of glimpses of long-running series and I’m happy to be corrected).
A slightly closer reference for George Gently and Endeavour might be Jericho with Robert Lindsay as Inspector Michael Jericho – a high-budget Granada series broadcast in 2005 and set in London in the 1950s. This was seen as linked to the success of ITV’s Foyle’s War with Michael Kitchen as a police inspector working in London during 1939-45. That series has recently returned, reportedly because of public demand and has moved into the immediate post-war period. Soon another new ITV ‘mini-series’ (2 x 1 hour) Murder on the Home Front will be broadcast dealing with the Home Office pathologist and his secretary investigating a series of murders in London in 1940.
I think we have here a quite distinctive crime genre repertoire covering crime fictions with ‘personal’ stories (i.e. interesting characters with back stories?) set in the 1940s-60s and drawing on crimes of the period in social/cultural/political terms. On the other hand, a much broader repertoire of ‘crime fiction mixed with costume drama’ could be seen to include a very large number of UK crime fiction production on TV over the years. The original Sherlock Holmes and more recently Ripper Street, Agatha Christie’s Poirot and other stories are all effectively period drama, but not treated in the same way as this current trend. These earlier series feel more like attempts just to use a colourful backdrop rather than to explore something about the time period in question.
Endeavour (the mysterious first name of the Morse character, if you weren’t aware) feels like the most ‘serious’ of these historical crime fictions, perhaps because of the personality of the central character. Some of the others exploit the comic potential much more and in the case of the BBC hits Life On Mars (2006-7) and Ashes to Ashes (2008-10) the comedy is partly social satire and postmodern ‘play’ mixed with science fiction. These two series also dealt with the slightly more recent past of the 1970s and 1980s.
I guess I have two questions for others interested in TV crime fiction in a global context. First, is this a peculiarly UK genre? I remember as a child watching the US series The Untouchables (1959-63) and there has been a more recent Canadian series of Murdoch Mysteries (2008-) but neither of these seem quite the same as Endeavour/Gently/Jericho etc. I’m hopeful of Young Montalbano which I think we’ll get in the UK later this year? Do you agree that there is a distinctive new genre repertoire? If so, how do you think we should begin analysing it?
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,003 other followers







 
		                Sign me up!                    

Film and Media Education since 1990
Accueil > Produits > Déco fête et table bretonne > Déco table bretagne > Vaisselle jetable Bretonne / Bretagne > Bougie d’anniversaire drapeau breton
Vous souhaitez organiser une fête pour l'anniversaire d'un(e) Breton(ne) d'origine ou de cœur ? Votre gâteau d'anniversaire fera immédiatement sensation avec cette jolie bougie en forme de drapeau breton ! Complétez également votre décoration de gâteau avec notre lot de 3 bougies bretonnes montées sur de grands pics. Dimensions: 7 x 5 cm
  * Livraison dès 2.99€ seulement en lettre suivie valable pour l’achat d'une bougie : voir conditions détaillées
En stock
Sludge scraper equipment is the kind of wastewater treatment equipment which is mainly used to clean up sludge that is settled in the bottom of the sewage treatment tank and the scum of the pool surface. It is widely used in urban sewage treatment, waterworks and industrial wastewater treatment industries. RUNENG brand sludge scraper equipment includes peripheral driven sludge scraper and central drive sludge scraper. We can provide professional custom design and fabrication, ODM and OEM are also available. Welcome to visit our factory.
Shandong RUNNENG Environmental Technology Co., Ltd (RUNNENG) is the professional wastewater equipment and solutions designer and manufacturer since 1997.  Our main products includes DAF machine, bar screen waste remover, sludge scraper and integrated sewage treatment equipment, etc. All products passed the ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001, we also has the Grade B engineering design certification. 
Room 1802, Building 3, China Railway Finance Center, High-tech Zone, Jinan City, China
Phone: +86 0531 5877 5865
Mobile: +86 186 7890 1966
Fax: +86 0531 5877 5865
Email: sales@wastewaterequipmentcn.com
Web: 
https://www.wastewaterequipmentcn.com									
  |   Geomemrane  |   Geotextile  |  Wheel Machine | Tea Towel | Workwear |  CNC Machine |  Grain Silo |  Hunting Gear  |  CNC Lathe  |  Sand Dredger  
You're looking for something that does not, has not, will not, might not or must not exist ...
... but you're always welcome to search for it.

 PirateBay

TorrentGalaxy |
About |
Blog

Usage policy |
TOR |
Doodles |
Proxy List



Check The Member Specials IconIn the top right corner of your game display.
News From The Pirate Spiral

If you logged in today, you might have noticed the Royals at KingsIsle have issued another Member Special promotion for the Pirate101 Skyway.
Hover your mouse pointer over the Member Icon and you’ll see the list of specials for this edition of the Member benefits package.
For Pirates with a Membership!
Now through Monday, February 18th,  players will  receive this limited time member special benefits:
What pets will you be training this weekend?!
Upgrade your Pirate101 account today to take advantage of this member benefit special! Get them while they last!
Good luck on your travels and adventures Pirates!!

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.
Check The Member Specials IconIn the top right corner of your game display.
News From The Pirate Spiral

If you logged in today, you might have noticed the Royals at KingsIsle have issued another Member Special promotion for the Pirate101 Skyway.
Hover your mouse pointer over the Member Icon and you’ll see the list of specials for this edition of the Member benefits package.
For Pirates with a Membership!
Now through Sunday February 10, 1:00am Eastern, receive Member Specials!
This limited time member benefit includes:
Upgrade your Pirate101 account today to take advantage of this member benefit special! Get them while they last!
Good luck on your travels and adventures Pirates!!

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.
Check The Member Specials IconIn the top right corner of your game display.
News From The Pirate Spiral

If you logged in today, you might have noticed the Royals at KingsIsle have issued another Member Special promotion for the Pirate101 Skyway.
Hover your mouse pointer over the Member Icon and you’ll see the list of specials for this edition of the Member benefits package.
For Pirates with a Membership!
Now through Sunday February 3, 1:00am Eastern, receive Member Specials!
This limited time member benefit includes:
Upgrade your Pirate101 account today to take advantage of this member benefit special! Get them while they last!
Good luck on your travels and adventures Pirates!!

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.
It’s That Time Again!
The Royals at KingsIsle announced the opening day of Pack-A-Palooza!
Now through Sunday, February 3rd, 2019, you can save up to 50% OFF all the awesome packs in the Pirate101 Crown Shop! Get your chance at cool companions, pets, gear and more through this limited time sale.
Up to 50% OFF Packs!
Check out these great savings in the Crown Shop now – this sale won’t last long!
Free Pack! 
Visit Pirate101.com Pack-A-Palooza and use the promo code “packap2019” to get a free mystery pack for your Pirate! You could get an Ashes of Armada, Grizzly, Tribal Crew or Mega Snack Pack. Offer ends February 3rd, 2019 at 11:59pm US Central Time. Limit one redemption per account.

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.
Check The Member Specials IconIn the top right corner of your game display.
News From The Pirate Spiral

If you logged in today, you might have noticed the Royals at KingsIsle have issued another Member Special promotion for the Pirate101 Skyway.
Hover your mouse pointer over the Member Icon and you’ll see the list of specials for this edition of the Member benefits package.
For Pirates with a Membership!
Now through Sunday January 27, 2019 1am Eastern.
This limited time member benefits include:
Upgrade your Pirate101 account today to take advantage of this member benefit special! Get them while they last!
Good luck on your travels and adventures Pirates!!

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.
KingsIsle on Instagram
Did you know that KingsIsle is on Instagram? Well they are. And this week they hit a big milestone, 1,000 followers and counting!
Give them a follow and join in the fun!
https://www.instagram.com/kingsisle/
Like and comment on an Instagram post by end of the day to get a chance at an additional 5x 10,000 Crowns codes for Wizard101 and Pirate101 that they’re giving out!

© 2019 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.

Hier werden die Unterschiede zwischen zwei Versionen gezeigt.


Link zu dieser Vergleichsansicht


by   
Madison Brown
 ·
                            Published November 6, 2018
              · Updated November 6, 2018

November 16 is right around the corner and we can hardly wait! We are staunch followers of #ProtectTheSecrets, but you’re in luck; we have some cool new Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald content to share, spoiler-free!
To help soften the blow from the short (read: extremely long and torturous) wait ahead, we have a whole trunk-full of images from the film in all of their high-resolution glory, and boy, are they fantastic. Along with some of the beloved characters from the first film in creepy new locations, there are never-before-seen magical creatures and unfamiliar faces both young and old, some in seemingly compromising situations.
There’s a lot going on, but we’d love to hear your take on what is in the pictures. Let the speculation begin!
 
Tags: Albus DumbledoreAugureychupacabraCredence BareboneFantasic Beasts: The Crimes of GrindelwaldGellert GrindelwaldHogwartsJacob KowalskiLeta LestrangeNaginiNewt Scamandernicolas flamelPickettPorpentina GoldsteinQueenie GoldsteinSeraphina PicquerySpielmanTheseus ScamanderTina GoldsteinVinda RosierYusuf KamaZouwu

August 5, 2013

 by    
MuggleNet
 · Published August 5, 2013


March 2, 2019

 by    
Brienne Green
 · Published March 2, 2019


August 20, 2013

 by    
MuggleNet
 · Published August 20, 2013

Follow:


Which OWL result do you think best suits "Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald"?

View Results
Tweets by MuggleNet 
More
MuggleNet is an unofficial Harry Potter fansite. Please email us if you have any questions or concerns. © 1999-2019 MuggleNet.com. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | COPPA Policy | Terms of Use | Feedback | Credits


£59.99
— OR —
Drape sterile 350 x 525cm, 75 x 150cm S/Lace incise- EKA
SKU: EKA3085
Sterile
EKA
DMS Plus Limited,
Unit 2 – 4 Blacknest Industrial Estate,
ALTON, GU34 4PX
0333 9000 900
Company Reg No: 9211123
VAT No: 201888511
WDA: 45354(V), 45354(H)
You can send us an email here at DMS and we'll get back to you, asap.
Start typing and press Enter to search
1 augustus 2016
De 41-jarige Ferdinand K. uit Utrecht is veroordeeld tot twee jaar gevangenisstraf en tbs met dwangverpleging. Hij heeft vorig jaar zes vrouwen aangerand in Utrecht. K. is twee keer eerder veroordeeld voor zedendelicten die hij eind jaren negentig had gepleegd. Hij werd toen negen jaar behandeld. 
Nadat hij zijn baan en vriendin was kwijtgeraakt, ging K. weer in de fout. Na cafébezoek met de nodige alcohol achtervolgde hij zes keer een vrouw op de fiets. Bij hun huis hield hij ze tegen en betastte hij hun geslachtsdelen. In één geval ging hij veel verder.
In 2000 concludeerden gedragsdeskundigen van het Pieter Baan Centrum dat er toentertijd sprake was van een persoonlijkheidsstoornis bij de man. Ondanks dat de man in zijn huidige strafzaak weigerde mee te werken aan een onderzoek oordeelde de rechtbank dat hij ook ten tijde van het plegen van de aanrandingen in 2015 nog leed aan een persoonlijkheidsstoornis. De rechtbank baseert haar conclusie mede op rapportages van deskundigen uit het verleden en de overeenkomsten tussen de oude feiten en de feiten in 2015. Vandaar ook dat de man tbs kreeg opgelegd.
  aanrandingen, Ferdinand K., utrecht
When two police officers visited Brisbane chef Marcus Volke’s inner-city unit in October 2014 for a welfare check, they initially thought the horrific scene before them was a “sick prank”.  
The pair were responding to a report from building managers about the presence of strange odours and blood on the carpet, The Australian reports.
But the officers were sickened to discover the dismembered and cooked remains of Volke’s transgender partner, Mayang Prasetyo.
According to The Guardian, officers found Prasetyo’s feet sticking out of a stock pot on the kitchen floor, while other remains were in a black garbage bag inside the washing machine.
The body of Volke was found in an industrial bin after he took his own life.
Brisbane chef Marcus Volke
The gruesome details were revealed during a three-day coronial inquest into the deaths and police response.  
Senior Constable Bryan Reid told the court he was overwhelmed by the strong smell inside the unit. 
"It was a bad smell, it was something I hadn't smelled before — I can't really describe it," he said. 
"I'm thinking it could well be a murder that's happened."
The inquest also heard the chef was seeking treatment for mental health problems a few weeks prior to Prasetyo’s death, writes Yahoo 7.
This article originally appeared on Marie Claire. 
You might also like… 

                When you subscribe to New Idea
            

                Personalise the newsletters you receive and gain access to competitions and offers
            

                    Oops!Something went wrong, we were unable to log you in using that account.
                    Please try again later.
                


                    Thanks!
                    
                    Logging you in now.


                    Oops!Something went wrong, Please try again later.




                    Oops!Something went wrong, Please try again later.



                    Thanks!
                    
                    You should be receiving an email shortly to reset your password
                

                    Oops!Something went wrong, we were unable to reset your password.
                    Please try again later.
                




                    Thanks!
                    
                    Your password has been successfully updated.
                

                    Oops!Something went wrong, we were unable to reset your password.
                    Please try again later.
                





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});



Une occasion à vendre ? Publiez votre annonce gratuitement !





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Forum de la catégorie : Occasions

Répondre au message PIPISTREL SINUS TRAIN CLASSIQUE posté par bleveque le 23-07-2018
Vous êtes seul responsable des informations transmises! 
Attention : le nom de l'image doit-être au format  [a..A & 0..9] sans accents et/ou symboles !



<!--
    google_ad_client = "pub-7622904087049882";
    /* AdSense LP Bot 728x90 */
    google_ad_slot = "9009714146";
    google_ad_width = 728;
    google_ad_height = 90;
    //-->
    




			Trending:		
SANTA ANA – Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas plans to warn the public today about the impending release of a convicted child molester. 
The news conference at which the warning will be issued will include the airing of a 45-minute video in which a woman will relate how George Joseph England paid her family to “adopt” her from Vietnam in 1972, when she was 5, then sexually assaulted her for 11 years. 
England, a former Costa Mesa resident who was convicted in 1977 of sexually assaulting three girls but then went on the lam for 29 years, is due to be released from prison Friday after serving just more than three years for his crimes, prosecutors say. He was denied parole in September but has served out the rest of his sentence. 
Rackauckas plans to hold a news conference this morning to warn the public about England’s release and show a video of the Vietnam-born woman who says England sexually assaulted her from the time she was a child. 
England said he would move back to his native Canada upon his release, Orange County District Attorney’s Office spokeswoman Susan Kang Schroeder said after September’s parole hearing, adding that he continues to deny molesting the girls, shows no remorse and refuses therapy. 
England avoided prosecution for allegedly repeatedly sexually assaulting the Vietnamese girl because the statue of limitations had run out, Schroeder said. 
Prosecutors wanted England to be sent to a mental institution after he served his time in prison. 
From Vietnam, where he had been a civilian contractor, England and the girl moved to Costa Mesa, where he forced her to have sex with him several times a week and gave her alcohol starting when she was 7, Schroeder said. 
He encouraged the girl to invite friends over, used a bathroom peephole to spy on them and installed a camera near the bathtub to take pictures, she said. 
England molested several other young girls while living in Costa Mesa in the 1970s, but most of the attacks weren’t reported to authorities, Schroeder said. 
England was arrested in July 1977 on suspicion of molesting three girls between the ages of 9 and 10 after one girl told her mother about the attacks, fearing England would go after her younger sister, Schroeder said. 
While his trial was pending, England allegedly told his Vietnamese “daughter” that if he were convicted, she would end up with a foster family that would rape her or force her into prostitution. He also told her she was too old to be adopted and that he was the only one who could protect her, Schroeder said. 
The girl did not testify against him, but the three other girls did and he was convicted. 
England fled before his sentencing and spent 29 years as a fugitive, moving around the nation before settling in Florida and using the identity of a boy who died when he was 11 months old in Santa Barbara, according to Schroeder. 
England, meanwhile, continued to sexually assault the Vietnamese girl in a variety of ways and even forced her to have sex with animals, Schroeder said. 
The girl became pregnant six to eight times, and England made her get abortions until she became pregnant at age 13 and the pregnancy was discovered too late for an abortion, Schroeder said. 
England convinced a social worker that a boy had impregnated her after she got drunk at a party, and the baby boy was put up for adoption, Schroeder said. 
He continued having sex with her until she was 16 and threatened to kill herself. She got married at 21 and has not been in contact with him since 1995, Schroeder said. 
England renewed his phony passport in 1997 and 2003, but in May 2005, the State Department discovered he was living under an assumed identity, Schroeder said. 
The woman he had molested for years told a neighbor who was an FBI agent about the abuse, and federal authorities arrested England in Florida in May 2005, Schroeder said. 
England pleaded guilty in federal court to two counts of fraud and misuse of passports and other entry documents on Sept. 15, 2005, and was sentenced to 14 months in federal prison. After that, he was sent to Orange County to be sentenced for the 1977 sexual assaults.
Get the latest news delivered daily!

      Dieser Shop verwendet Cookies - sowohl aus technischen Gründen, als auch zur Verbesserung Ihres Einkaufserlebnisses. Wenn Sie den Shop weiternutzen, stimmen Sie der Nutzung von Cookies zu.
            (mehr Informationen)
          
Artikelnummer: 5142

                        
    inkl. 19% USt.        ,
                                    
                    versandfreie Lieferung
                

Dieses Produkt hat Variationen. Wählen Sie bitte die gewünschte Variation aus.
Cabrinha Tronic 2018Hardfacts- FREERIDE / WAVE- Sizes: 137 x 41 / 141 x 42Informations
The Tronic is designed to thrive in choppy water or carve turns in the surf.
The Tronic has literally carved it?s way into the hearts and quivers of it's dedicated following. The Tronic is a twin tip with an outline and rocker made for rough water and surf. The Tronic cuts through chop with ease and pushes through G-force inducing turns with power and control. The Tronic 149cm model has a completely new shape which favors an off-set surf stance strap positioning. The 149cm version is also IKA race registered? giving this board an incredibly wide range of use.

Datenschutzerklärung

Du möchtest immer auf dem Laufenden sein? Erhalte einen 5% Gutschein als Willkommensgeschenk.
Egal ob Kiteboard, Windsurfsegel oder Neoprensocke, wir haben alles was das Wassersport Herz begehrt bei uns im Shop! Wir haben eine Vielzahl von verschiedenen Herstellern im Programm in den Bereichen : Windsurfing, Kiteboarding, Stand Up Paddeling und Neopren. Hierbei versuchen wir einen guten Mix aus Preis/Leistung anzubieten.
Seit der Gründung in den frühen 90er Jahren steht Surfpirates für beste Preise und excelenten Service. Uns ist wichtig, dass unsere Kunden das für Sie passenden Material bekommen, mit dem Sie eine gute Zeit auf dem Wasser haben können! Individuelle Beratung ist hierbei extrem wichtig! Durch unsere über 25 Jahre lange Erfahrung finden wir für jeden das Richtige!
Die Mischung machts! Egal ob Urgestein der Branche oder neue Marke mit innovativen Ideen. Wir gucken genau was wir Euch anbieten und wo wir Euch garantieren können, dass Ihr ein gutes Produkt bekommt. Bei der Auswahl unserer Produkte ist es uns wichtig, dass auch wir einen Ansprechpartner haben. Preis und Qualität müssen stimmen.
Wir machen da weiter, wo Andere aufhören! Service ist uns extrem wichtig. Egal ob es eine notwendige Reparatur an deinem Kite ist oder ein Defekt an deinem neuen Trapez, der nicht hätte sein sollen. Wir kümmern uns drum! Wir bieten unseren Kunden die Möglichkeit, Material zu testen und haben dafür z.B. jedes Jahr unser großes Testevent auf der Insel Römö in Dänemark! 
*Sperrgut nicht eingeschlossen
Copyright 2019 Surfpirates - Impressum - Datenschutz - Kontakt

PERUSAHAAN : PT SUARA PEMBAHARU JAYA berdasarkan Keputusan Menkumham No : AHU-2440324.AH.01.01. Tahun 2015.Dicetak Tanggal 25 Mei 2015
OFFICE REDAKSI : redaksi@suarapembaharu.com - suarapembaharu.ol@gmail.com Jln. Siswa Lingkungan V Kelurahan Taas, Kecamatan Tikala, Manado, Sulawesi Utara. kontak : 085397678781, 085256456264
Learning how to outsmart criminals will help keep you and yours out of harm's way rather than hoping for luck or begging for mercy.
You're about to learn lifesaving lessons from my 29 years of research and experience teaching countless children’s groups, college students, civic groups, corporations, and crime survivors, as well as veteran cops at police academies– including dozens of original insights you've never imagined and will find nowhere else.


 For the first time anywhere, all of home security is simply classified into five types. You can prevent  home invasions and burglaries by making sure all
 your family members use these safety tips (as a chain is no stronger than its weakest link). Your security really is in 
the hands of your entire family. Predators will have to look elsewhere 
for easy prey.






 Your life in the outside world largely is in your hands with the know-how of driving safety, parking lot safety, and street crime tips.




 You'll learn how to protect your kids beyond the reach of your arms with the articles in Child Safety - Overview.


Whenever you’re tempted to be careless, ask yourself, "What could possibly happen?" The real-life stories throughout this website show you what could possibly happen – and how to turn the odds more in your favor.  
You'll see how to avoid a face-to-face encounter, how to control fear itself, how criminal minds think, and – best of all – how to outsmart them.  
Crime survivors will find counseling resources as well as guidance in choosing a self defense class to empower your recovery.  
Folklore and fables – from vampire and wolfman legends to tales of The 
Brothers’ Grimm – tell us of ogres, fiends, and monsters. Today we call 
them violent criminals. They’ve always plagued us and – as long as 
passions, madness, and evil exist – always will. Let’s blow away a 
predator's biggest advantage: the naïveté of the prey.
You live in a fantasy world if you think that all humans are basically good, that if you're just nice to everyone then they'll be nice to you, and that you’re somehow immune to crime.Know this: in the real world, roughly three percent of men (one out of 33) are criminal sub-clinical psychopaths. Most of them are masters of deception and look and act perfectly normal, and they easily travel to any neighborhood at any time of day or night. And… they outnumber the cops – by far.The US Department of Justice says that the United States has roughly 600,000 cops for the entire country - with only a fraction of those on patrol at any one time. (And the average 9-1-1 response time is ELEVEN minutes – an eternity in an emergency. In many areas it’s far slower than that.)By contrast, nearly 630,000 prisoners are released each year to walk among us and roughly two-thirds of them are arrested again within three years for new crimes. Add to that the many thousands of criminals paroled in prior years and also all the young criminals who haven’t been arrested yet.From 1977 to 1997, nearly four million Americans were either murdered, shot, stabbed, clubbed, strangled, or otherwise injured – more casualties than the U.S. military has suffered in all the wars in its history. Walking among us are paroled killers, kidnappers, carjackers, rapists, child molesters, stalkers, thugs, muggers, and burglars – as well as the up-and-coming young predators. Do you rely on outnumbered, understaffed cops to always protect you and your loved ones? Really?...
 You don’t need a bulletproof vest, a bodyguard, or to sleep with one eye open. You can turn the odds more in your favor by learning  how to be S.A.F.E. – Skeptical, Alert, Flexible, Explosive:
 You don’t need a bulletproof vest, a bodyguard, or to sleep with one eye open. You can turn the odds more in your favor by learning  how to be S.A.F.E. – Skeptical, Alert, Flexible, Explosive:
Skeptical of anyone trying to get near you or trying to isolate you whether you're at home or outdoors – as shown in Wolf in Sheep's Clothing, Friendly Predators, and Scam-In; 
Alert for traps and escape strategies – as shown in Spotting Danger and Facing Danger; 
Flexible: being tricky, changing strategies as needed – as shown in Victim’s Options - Outsmarting and Verbal Self Defense – and if worse comes to worst: 
Exploding into an escape - stun & run – as shown in Sucker Punch and Self Defense Techniques.  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A no-cost subscription to my newsletter for women, parents, seniors, and survivors gives a handy sampling of lifesaving topics.  It’s also a frequent reminder to gamble in a casino – not in your life.
A no-cost subscription to my newsletter for women, parents, seniors, and survivors gives a handy sampling of lifesaving topics.  It’s also a frequent reminder to gamble in a casino – not in your life.
Join me in exploring this site - as have more than a million visitors from 162 countries. You’ll never think about your safety the same way ever again - and you'll turn the odds more in your favor. Knowledge is power.  
Michael Edward Loftus Sr wrote this website with data from the FBI, DOJ, CDC, and the books listed here as well as from interviews with cops, crime victims, and my own personal experiences as described in my Bio.

This  material may NOT be copied, published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

All Rights Reserved © Copyright 1990-2019

Michael Edward Loftus Sr – www.Crime-Safety-Security.com



		8/29/2012
	



		0 Comments
	


November 2012

October 2012

September 2012

August 2012

July 2012

June 2012

May 2012

April 2012

March 2012



All

Get Out Of A Timeshare

Rci Timeshare Scam

Selling Timeshares

Timeshare Advice

Timeshare Complaints

Timeshare Forums

Timeshare Fraud

Timeshare Misrepresentation

Timeshare News

Timeshare Presentations

Timeshare Reviews

Timeshare Scams






		RSS Feed
	

Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
By Emily Kirkpatrick

Submit 




									February 11, 2019 | 5:01pm
												
On Monday, Kim Kardashian posted a 2007 throwback photo of herself on Instagram — and revealed the one special piece of jewelry that survived her harrowing 2016 Paris robbery.
“So this necklace that I have on is a diamond cross from Jacob [the Jeweler] and it was the first piece of jewelry that I bought when I got my first check,” the 38-year-old reality star explained in her caption.
“When I was at robbed [sic] this was taken from me. However on the way out the robbers dropped one piece of jewelry in the street and this was it. It’s very sentimental to me. Just wanted to share.”
In October 2016, the Kimoji CEO was held at gunpoint in her hotel room during Paris Fashion Week after armed men posing as cops were able to infiltrate the building. The thieves robbed Kardashian of $10 million dollars’ worth of jewelry, including the $4 million, 20-carat engagement ring given to her by Kanye West.
The traumatizing ordeal temporarily caused the mobile mogul to pull back from all big public events, as well as completely stop flaunting and wearing pricey jewelry, and even stop posting on social media altogether.
But Kardashian’s since returned to her more flashy ways, even returning to Paris to attend Virgil Abloh’s first runway show as the creative director of Louis Vuitton menswear.
“It feels refreshing to face my fears and overcome them,” she wrote about returning to the city in a blog post on her website at the time. “For me, there’s no point in staying in a f—ked-up state of mind. ‘Feel it, go through it and move on’ has always been how I try to live my life.”

Read Next



				Rosario Dawson is changing the conversation around African...			


Read Next



				Rosario Dawson is changing the conversation around African...			


This story has been shared 98,391 times.
98,391


This story has been shared 49,788 times.
49,788


This story has been shared 46,949 times.
46,949


This story has been shared 11,711 times.
11,711


This story has been shared 7,317 times.
7,317


This story has been shared 5,819 times.
5,819

Share Selection

© 2019 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | Terms of Use | Privacy | Your Ad Choices | Sitemap


							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						
In an alleged money laundering case in the Philippines, a notary public asserts that he did not sign an affidavit of PhilRem Service Corporation’s messenger. Mark Palmares, the messenger, claims that the affidavit was signed and sealed by public notary Atty de Jesus, however, de Jesus fervently denies that the signature on the notarized documents was legitimate.
Palmares was in charge of money transfer for PhilRem and accompanied the president of the organization while she made a multimillion dollar deal with a casino operator. Palmares claims that he and a family member carried three bags of cash to complete the transaction and swore before a notary, but he was questioned when investigators saw the enormous size of the house he was living in. The messenger still claims to be innocent of the laundering, but the investigation is ongoing.
Notary Must Pay Back Clients after Failed Transfer of Property
What is a Notary and What Do They Do?
Monday               8AM–5:00PM
Tuesday               8AM–5:00PM
Wednesday         8AM–5:00PM
Thursday             8AM–5:00PM
Friday                   8AM–5:00PM
Saturday              On Demand
Sunday                 On Demand
While it is true that a timeshare contract is a binding legal document, it is often mistakenly thought that such a contract cannot only be cancelled.  In fact, most timeshare companies maintain that their contracts are non – cancellable.  This  misconception is perpetuated by timeshare companies and user groups that are funded, maintained and controlled by the timeshare industry.
The FHA 203k loan program provides home buyers the opportunity to buy and fix up a property, without exhausting their personal savings.
Livraison GRATUITE à partir de 35.00EUR d'achat
 Il y a actuellement   visiteurs sur cette page 

Passez des nuits sereines grâce à cet attrape-rêve "Harmonie des 7 chakras" ! Accrochez le au-dessus de votre lit pour passer des nuits agréables et sans cauchemars. 
Selon la croyance populaire, le capteur de rêve empêche les mauvais rêves d'envahir le sommeil de son détenteur. Agissant comme un filtre, il capte les songes envoyés par les esprits, conserve les belles images de la nuit et brûle les mauvaises visions aux premières lueurs du jour.
C'est aussi une excellente idée de cadeau pour votre famille ou vos amis. 
Caractéristiques : 
Après qu'une commande ait été passée, elle est envoyée au plus vite à l'un de nos centres d'exécution, dans lequel votre article sera posté.Vous pouvez nous contacter pendant les 2 premières heures pour un remboursement complet sans raisons particulières. Sont disponibles ci-dessous les délais de livraison en fonction de votre localisation. 
Délai de livraison vers l'Europe : 10 à 28 joursDélai de livraison vers l'Amérique du Nord (Canada et États-Unis) : 14 à 34 jours

Choisissez simplement vos articles dans le menu déroulant sur la page du produit et cliquez sur le bouton "Acheter maintenant", puis suivez les étapes pour compléter votre commande. Nous préparerons celle-ci et vous enverrons un émail de confirmation quand votre colis est envoyé !
Nous acceptons carte de crédit Visa et Mastercard. Vous pouvez aussi payer par Paypal.Pour paiement avec une carte Aurore, Carte Bancaire, Maestro et autre carte de débit il faut faire le paiement en passant par Paypal même si vous n'avez pas de comptePour ce faire, vous n’avez qu’à sélectionner « Acheter avec Paypal » sur la page du panier d’Achat. Vous pourrez ensuite sélectionner « Payer par carte de crédit ou carte de débit Visa » sur la page suivante. Ensuite, vous entrez votre pays (France), et dans le type de carte, vous pourrez sélectionner votre carteN’hésitez pas à nous contacter si vous avez des questions!
Car nous accordons un soin particulier au choix de nos produits.
Ils doivent être innovants et d'une très bonne qualité.
Nos articles sont testés et approuvés par notre service.
Nous sommes des passionnés et nous mettons tout en oeuvre pour vous faire découvrir nos articles!

Si vous avez des questions ou un besoin particulier n'hésitez pas à nous contacter à : contact@littlebouddha.fr
Obtenez des réductions exclusives en vous inscrivant à notre newsletter
 En renseignant votre adresse email, vous acceptez de recevoir chaque semaine nos offres commerciales par courrier électronique et vous prenez connaissance de notre Politique de confidentialité.
 Vous pouvez vous désinscrire à tout moment à l'aide des liens de désinscription ou en nous contactant à l'adresse contact@littlebouddha.fr
Using security cameras to prevent crime

Flickr via Creative Commons
Flickr via Creative Commons

Flickr via Creative Commons
Flickr via Creative Commons
Flickr via Creative Commons
 Tyler Bar-NessMarch 4, 2014Filed under Social Justice
Security cameras work like remote-controlled eyes that film suspicious activity when you are not around. They are also are one of the most visible methods of crime prevention.
Anti-crime measures, such as security cameras, were used with great effect in the identification and subsequent arrest of a serial arsonist in San Jose this January, according to Mike Rosenberg of the Mercury News.
By working together with the police, the owners of these security cameras can say that they helped to put a dangerous criminal behind bars.
San Jose Councilmember Sam Liccardo also submitted a memorandum to the Rules and Open Government Committee, highlighting the use of security cameras.
In his proposal, Liccardo described a program that would reach out to the owners of security cameras, building a database of private camera film records for the San Jose Police to consult.
Higher-end cameras would be used to share videos with the police over the Internet, while lower-end models would require tapes to be handed over, according to the Mercury News.
By coordinating their efforts, the police and store owners can significantly cut down on crime and make the search for criminals even easier. But many people are concerned about surveillance.
With the recent spotlight on surveillance, particularly the National Security Agency’s unprecedented seizure of phone records, some may regard the idea of authorities watching over us negatively.
There is a difference between observing people on the streets and in public, and reading their emails and phone conversations. When a person steps out in public, there is a silent agreement between them and the rest of society.
We agree to follow certain rules; we consent to let other people view us. There are no doors for us to close for privacy, no windows to pull blinds and shutters over.
When we step outside, we are consenting to be viewed within reason. If we go out with the intent to commit crimes, we have already consented and accepted the risk that comes with it: break the law, and you risk being punished.
With this program, the risk of being caught is greater. With a focus on cameras that cover as much ground as possible, police can extend their view beyond the interior of stores, the same way they were able to discover the serial arsonist.
We do not outright agree to have every moment of our public lives carefully observed and measured, but more security cameras, and granting the city the right to build a database off of volunteered video footage, is not the same as being stalked.
Living with the idea that there is an eye on you wherever you go is the price to pay for added protection, for safer streets and higher odds of criminals being caught red-handed.
But not everybody is willing to pay that price. For some, the idea that at any moment you are being captured and recorded is too steep.
We must reach a common ground with these people.
Privacy in public is not as vital as our safety. As uncomfortable as it is, these cameras are there for our benefit.
One Response to “Using security cameras to prevent crime”
Good post. I learn something totally new and challenging on websites I stumbleupon every
day. It will always be useful to read through content from other
authors and practice a little something from other sites.


If you want a picture to show with your comment, go get a gravatar.
Name (required)

Email Address (required)

Speak your mind




What's your favorite subject?

View Results
Opinion
Children finally allowed to raise their voice
Social Justice
Significant Black figures
Opinion
Immigration affects national sovereignty
Opinion
Decriminalization of drug use counter-intuitive for addicts
News
Reflections on the Tree of Life Congregation massacre in Pittsburgh
Opinion
Understanding The 14th Amendment and What it Says About Birthright Citizenship
Opinion
Kaepernick’s protest inspires and incites
Campus Life
ASG encourages leadership with conference at SJCC
Campus Life
Arming teachers in schools?
Opinion
Don’t worry kids…
City College Times
The Voice of San Jose City College since 1956
© 2019  • Privacy Policy • FLEX WordPress Theme by SNO • Log in
POORNA VIRAAM !



  window._taboola = window._taboola || [];
  _taboola.push({
    mode: 'thumbnails-rr',
    container: 'taboola-right-rail-thumbnails',
    placement: 'Right Rail Thumbnails',
    target_type: 'mix'
  });







You don't have permission to access /products/g2049-bikini-draped-top-and-cheeky-bottom
on this server.
You don't have permission to access /checkout/reviewerLoginLoad.do
on this server.
Once filed, the FCC will email you an “FCC ticket” number.  Keep that number for future reference.  You may follow the status of your complaint by clicking the check status box in the upper right hand corner of the web portal.
If you do not want to use the on-line complaint, you may call 1-888 CALL FCC.  However, using the phone may take longer.
Click HERE for next story
Click HERE for previous story
Officers were called at just after 8am to reports of a fight taking place in Henshaw, Parnwell, involving a knife.
Armed police attended the scene and a man has been arrested.
Nobody has been seriously injured. 
UPDATE: False information leads to armed police call out in Peterborough
©2019 JPIMedia Ltd. All rights reserved.
“A suicide bomber killed at least 27 Shi’ite militiamen outside the Iraqi town of Jurf al-Sakhar on Monday after security forces pushed Islamic State militants out of the area over the weekend, army and police sources said.”
Source: Suicide bomber kills 27 militiamen south of Iraqi capital | Reuters
OODA is comprised of a unique team of international experts capable of providing advanced intelligence and analysis, strategy and planning support, risk and threat management, training, decision support, crisis response, and security services to global corporations and governments.
TEL: 04608 - 970 270  Email: info@metropolis-drachen.de





Passwort vergessen?

Konto eröffnen


Passwort merken


Anmelden


				Sparen Sie 3%bei Vorkasse


				Sparen Sie 3%bei Bankeinzug


				+ zusätzlich 3%ab 300 € Bestellwert


 Versandkostenfreie Lieferung ab 150 €

Das Kitesailing Trapez "De Luxe" aus robustem Nylongewebe ist sehr gut abgepolstert und bietet viele Einstellmöglichkeiten. Das Set enthält zusätzlich den ebenfalls von Libre stammenden Bügel "Arminator"

Größe:
XL


Für den Merkzettel bitte anmelden.



Lieferzeit:
    1 -
                            7 Tage




    		Hier können Sie Fragen zum Produkt stellen.
    		

Bitte Wert angeben!



Bitte Wert angeben!
Bitte Wert angeben!


Bitte Wert angeben!


					Bezeichnung: Libre Trapez deLuxe – Komplettset Arminator, Bestellnummer: 4102234
				

Bitte Wert angeben!

This domain has expired. If you owned this domain, contact your domain registration service provider for further assistance. If you need help identifying your provider, visit https://www.tucowsdomains.com/

Home  |  FCC Public File  |  EEO  |  Employment Opportunities  |  Advertising Information  |  Contact Us
Der Essay von Spiegel-Online-Journalistin Annett Meiritz und ihre darin geschilderten Erfahrungen bei der Berichterstattung über die Piratenpartei haben uns sehr betroffen gemacht. Wir distanzieren uns von der Verhaltensweise von einigen unserer Mitglieder, verurteilen die Ausdrucksweise und das Verhalten einiger Piraten. Der Berliner Landesvorstand hat einem im Artikel beschriebenen Mitglied wegen seiner Beleidigungen bereits eine Ordnungsmaßnahme ausgesprochen.
Es ist gut, dass Annett Meiritz ihre Erfahrungen als Journalistin in unseren Reihen öffentlich macht. Ihr Artikel enthält einige Beispiele dafür, dass in unserer Partei der Anspruch, über Diskriminierung hinausgewachsen zu sein, nicht eingelöst wird. Dieser Realität müssen wir uns stellen. Wir, der Vorstand der Berliner PiratInnen und die UnterzeichnerInnen, distanzieren uns davon, negative kritische Artikel als „Diffamierung“ abzutun und plädieren für eine eine sachliche Auseinandersetzung mit der vorgebrachten Kritik.
Wir bitten Annett Meiritz um Verzeihung und danken ihr für den Weckruf, den sie bei vielen von uns ausgelöst hat. Ihr Artikel verdeutlicht, dass es ein Mehr an Sensibilisierung für den latenten zum Teil unterschwelligen und auch offenen Sexismus in der Piratenpartei braucht. Uns ist bewusst, dass wir diese Sensibilisierung nicht einfach verordnen, sondern sie selbst leben müssen.
Annett Meiritz schreibt, sie renne nicht bei jedem dummen Spruch zur Antidiskriminierungsstelle. Sie wolle auch kein aseptisches Arbeitsklima. Das wollen wir auch nicht. JournalistInnen wie Mitglieder müssen ihrer Arbeit ungehindert und frei von Diskrimierung und Diffamierung nachgehen können. Wir wissen, dass es viele PiratInnen gibt, die in Sachen Sexismus inner- und außerhalb der Partei sehr aufmerksam und engagiert sind und für die zur politischen Aktion auch eine persönliche, eine menschliche Entwicklung gehört. Dies wollen wir stärken.
Es steht für uns außer Frage, dass alle PiratInnen mithelfen müssen, damit die Piratenpartei einmal mit Fug und Recht von sich behaupten kann:
Geschlechterdiskriminierung, die gibt es bei uns nicht.
Für den Vorstand:
Gerhard Anger
Gordon Thomas
Manuel Schneider
Frank Thiesen
Stephan Bliedung
Gero Nagel
Benjamin Meyer
Für das Pressesquad:
Ben de Biel
Ursula Bub-Hielscher
Konstanze Dobberke
Enno Lenze
Björn Glienke
Maria Rosenau
–~~~~
/signed
Ich zeichne mal mit und begrüße diesen Schritt unseres LVs.
–~~~~
Zur Antidiskriminierungsstelle muss sie ja auch nicht. Im Print-SPIEGEL haut das ganze noch viel mehr rein.
Der Umgang mit ihr als Journalistin ist zu verurteilen und sicherlich besteht auch ein Interesse der Öffentlichkeit an dem Geschehen. Positiv war an dem Artikel auch, dass ebenfalls andere Parteien ihr Fett wegbekommen haben.
Dennoch, es wird sich nicht mit unserer Kommunikationsweise auseinandergesetzt, damit dass bei uns alles öffentlich und derber ist, so war es im Online-Leben schon immer; es wird sich mit den Worten ohne den zugehörigen Kontext auseinandergesetzt.
Es erinnert an die Debatte um die Kleine Hexe.
Es ist richtig aufzuzeigen, dass Sexismus in dieser Partei existiert – es ist erschütternd in welchem Ausmaß – allerdings kann ich nicht verstehen, warum sie dann mit alteingesessenen CDU-Politikern am Tisch über frauenfeindliche Witze lachen kann – ohne darüber einen Artikel zu schreiben.
Daher vermute ich, dass derjenige Pirat, der Anette Meiritz beleidigte, auf ihren Schreibstil im Umgang mit der Partei anspielte.
Wie verblendet bist du denn? Weil sie eine Frau ist,  ist es oaky, dass mann sie aufgrund ihres Schreibstils als Nutte abstempelt? Deinen Kommentar hättest du dir sparen können, aber verklemmte Chauvinisten deiner Sorte entblöden sich halt ungern. Leider weiß ich aus Beobachtungen, vom Zuhören und aus schriftlichen Quellen, dass sich bei einer Vielzahl von Piraten eine Aversion gegenüber der Presse aufgestaut hat, die ich sonst lediglich bei der NPD und anderen Rechtsradikalen vermutet habe. Du passt ja hervorragend ins Raster. Schäme Dich.
„Wie verblendet bist du denn? Weil sie eine Frau ist, ist es oaky, dass mann sie aufgrund ihres Schreibstils als Nutte abstempelt?“
-Könntest du bitte nochmal zitieren in welcher Zeile ich auch nur irgendeine Beleidigung als okay befinde?
Anyways, worauf ich anspiele ist folgendes:
 „Prostitution-
Da das Wort so gern, und oft so falsch, als Metapher für jede Art von erkaufter Abhängigkeit gebraucht wird[…]“
(http://www.zeit.de/1985/08/pro-contra)
Die Frage, die sich mich nun stellt, wäre es sexistisch gewesen wenn ein männlicher Journalist als Prostituierter bezeichnet worden wäre? Wäre das männerfeindlich oder sogar frauenfeindlich?
Dass es sich nichtsdestotrotz um eine üble und vermutlich sexistische Beleidigung handelt ist unbestritten. Ich kenne jedoch Simon Lange zu wenig, um mir anzumaßen, sagen zu können was für ein Bild dieser Mensch von Frauen hat.
Was ich eigentlich sagen will: Es gibt wesentlich eindeutigere Fälle von Sexismus in dieser Partei – und die sind weiterhin aufzuzeigen. Aber da jetzt eine Journalisten betroffen ist, ist es natürlich angebracht, dass sich der Vorstand Berlins für einen kruden Typen entschuldigt, der sowieso die ganze Zeit alle möglichen Leute aufs übelste beschimpft.
Probleme werden hiermit nicht doch gelöst, das Ganze ist nur ein Schuldeingeständnis.
Ich persönlich hätte mir da eher ein Live-Video-Gespräch zwischen Simon Lange und Annette Meiritz gewünscht, da hätten wir sicher mehr über uns selbst, unsere Gesellschaft und die Wechselwirkungen zwischen Politik und Medien gelernt, als in einer Artikelschlacht. Vielleicht hätte sich dann auch geklärt, warum der Typ ihr so etwas ins Gesicht hätte nicht sagen können oder warum man schon früher ein PAV hätte beantragen sollen.
Das ich was gegen die Presse hab stimmt im Allgemeinen nicht, ich bin froh, die Presse ist nicht ohne Grund die vierte Gewalt. Ich habe jedoch etwas gegen Stimmungsmache und schlechte Recherche. Um dich zu beruhigen, mich stört es auch wie die Presse gegen die FDP, SPD oder Wulff hetzt.
Wenn du meinst, alle Vorwürfe gegen die Piraten wären gerechtfertigt, bitte. 
PS. Ach und bist du das?
http://robertniedermeier.files.wordpress.com/2011/11/lauerthread.jpg
— Dann denke ich nämlich du bist hier der wahre Sexist.
Hi Marcel,
>> Dennoch, es wird sich nicht mit unserer
>> Kommunikationsweise auseinandergesetzt,
>> damit dass bei uns alles öffentlich und derber
>> ist, so war es im Online-Leben schon immer; 
 Hot Homemade sex video
It looks like nothing was found at this location. Maybe try one of the links below or a search?
Enter the username or e-mail you used in your profile. A password reset link will be sent to you by email.
Loading...
Met uw bijdrage kunnen wij nóg beter informeren.
Doneer nu!

Grapevine Personals operating since 1998 has provided people with the opportunity to talk live with hot singles of their local city or with people right across Canada. Whether you have explored all options of finding singles in bars or clubs or have very little time to socialize, Grapevine Personals is a great way to meet like-minded individuals for sharing the hot and erotic desires, as the chat lines have thousands of genuine people as their members. Phone dating and chatting experience with Grapevine Personals is a highly wonderful and comfortable experience, as users can enjoy the conversation in a completely relaxed manner because this chat line company is highly safe, private and confidential. Members of the chat line do not need to create their online profiles and their personal information is not revealed to anyone until and unless the users share it themselves. Adult singles coming here just have to record a voice message on the system in order to browse through hundreds of voice profiles of other members to find a message that excites and attracts them. All the male members are entitled of complimentary free-trail offer whereas women can freely access the system.
 
 
        
 
Mittlerweile hat  diese Behandlungsmethode eine große Bekanntheit durch Sport- bzw. Fussballübertragungen im Fernsehen erlangt. Durch ein speziell entwickeltes Tape aus einem sehr gut verträglichen, elastischen Material, und einer entspechenden Technik ist es möglich, Schmerzen und Bewegungseinschränkungen erfolgreich zu therapieren. Durch gezieltes tapen der betroffenen Muskelgruppen erzielt man eine stimulierende Wirkung z. B. auf Muskelpartien, Gelenke, Lymph- und Nervensystem. Man verbessert dadurch die Muskelfunktion, die Durchblutung, unterstützt die Gelenke, fördert die Beweglichkeit und reduziert Schmerzen. 
 
 
Sportverletzungen, Zerrungen, Rückenschmerzen, Ischialgie, Tennisarm, Arthrosen u. A. 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
FREE SHIPPING IN THE UK • OVERSEAS SHIPPING JUST £1 PER ITEM
© 2019, TTA ShopPowered by Shopify

	        Get Started for FREE
	    


	       		Sign up with Facebook
			

				Sign up with Twitter
			


I don't have a Facebook or a Twitter account

Free Mainland UK delivery on all orders over £40*
Stay warm and agile with the North Face 100 Glacier fleece, as you hike to your hearts content! This best-selling pullover fleece by North Face is an ideal layer to put on when venturing out in unpredictable weather.
Polartec Classic fleece provides solid core warmth without adding extra weight, so you stay cosy and comfortable hour after hour.
The quarter-zip front helps let in some much-needed air once you've worked up a sweat.

Product Code: T92UAV2UT-XXL
We offer Free UK Mainland delivery on all orders over £40*
Orders between £0.00 - £40
Orders between £40 - £75 - Free UK Mainland Delivery
Items weighing 2-30kg - DPD Next Day Delivery (24-48 hour delivery)
If you place an order between £40-£75 and want faster delivery, you can upgrade for just £1.95 at the checkout. We will then send your order with either DPD or UPS Next Day Service. (our choice of courier depend on postcode coverage)
We ship all items over the value of £75 and/or 2KG in weight via DPD, which in most cases is a next day service to all mainland UK addresses (providing the order is placed by 1pm) This service does exclude some Scotland postcodes (which can take 2 days).
UK Highlands & Islands £0.00 to £50
Guernsey, Isle Of Man, Jersey & Ireland postcodes = £14.95
UK Highlands & Islands £50 and up
Guernsey, Isle Of Man, Jersey & Ireland postcodes = £9.95
Some Highland and Island postcodes may use our standard UK shipping charges but will not use DPD's delivery service.
The following postcodes will be posted with UPS or Royal Mail depending on size and weight:
Scottish Highlands: AB36-38, AB55-56, FK17-21, IV1-39, IV52-54, IV63, KW1-14, PA21-40, PH19-26, PH30-41, PH49-50
Scottish Islands: HS1-9, IV40-51, IV55-56, KA27-28, KW15-17, PA20, PA41-49, PA60-78, PH42-44, ZE1-3
INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING
Items weighing 0-32kg - We ship to the following destinations = flat rate of £14.95
Please get in touch with us if you require an order to an international destination that is not listed above. We will then come back to you with a quote.
please don't hesitate to get in touch with us regarding a custom order here
--------------------------
Although we always try to ship within one working day of an order being placed we cannot always guarantee this.
Packages under 5kg will go either with DPD, UPS or Royal Mail recorded depending on the value, usually higher value and larger items will always go with UPS.
Royal Mail are a 3-5 day service whereas DPD or UPS are generally a next working day service.
All items priced over £75.00 will go with UPS or DPD guaranteed. This is usually a next working day service (excluding highlands and islands where it is a 2 day service.)
Provided you supply an e-mail address and or a mobile telephone number with your order DPD or UPS will notify you on the status of your dispatch and delivery information. 
A signature will be required on receipt of your delivery so we advise a delivery address where there will be somebody to sign otherwise the parcel will get returned to depot.
If delivery attempts are made twice and nobody signs for the package it will be returned to us and any subsequent deliveries unfortunately will incur a re-delivery charge. 
We are more than happy to ship worldwide so please contact us with your full address and we can obtain a quote for international shipping. 
In regard to international shipping any customs and tax charges outside of the EU are the responsibility of the purchaser and not Outback Trading.
We do not ship to Norway or Switzerland due to the custom charges.
The Angel Centre, Tyacke Road, Helston, Cornwall TR13 8RR.

© 2017 Outback Trading
Sign up to our newsletter for offers and updates

						 
					
Unavailable
Sold Out
View more information »
 
A Florida man is behind bars after he got caught pretending to be a police officer.
 Copyright © 2019, New York Daily News 
I'm sorry, but the page you're looking for could not be found. Perhaps you can find what you are looking for below.
Dr. Laura Rubiales: Sociopaths, PTSD and the Mind Body Connection
Lovefraud Professional Resources | August 29, 2018 | 2 Comments
BTK Serial killer in his own words on Oxygen Network Sept. 2
Donna Andersen | August 28, 2018 | 0 Comments
Sociopaths leave us totally disoriented — here’s why
Donna Andersen | August 27, 2018 | 4 Comments
Living with a Sociopath
ncljo | August 25, 2018 | 3 Comments
If court-appointed professionals in your custody case are biased, learn what to do in Lovefraud’s upcoming webinar
Donna Andersen | August 24, 2018 | 0 Comments
After the sociopath: Courage is fear that said its prayers
Donna Andersen | August 23, 2018 | 2 Comments
Seagram heiress Clare Bronfman arrested as part of Keith Ranier’s Nxivm cult
Donna Andersen | August 22, 2018 | 0 Comments
Woman allegedly planned to kill her mother to get money for online love scammer
Donna Andersen | August 21, 2018 | 0 Comments
Emotional and psychological abuse, described by 12 Lovefraud readers
Donna Andersen | August 20, 2018 | 14 Comments
Upcoming webinar: Friend or foe in your custody battle? Understanding court-appointed professionals
Donna Andersen | August 17, 2018 | 0 Comments
MaryAnn Glynn, LCSW, to host free conference call support group 8/26/18
Mary Ann Glynn, LCSW, CHT | August 16, 2018 | 0 Comments
My cousin and the Pennsylvania pedophile priests
Donna Andersen | August 16, 2018 | 8 Comments
Domestic violence perpetrators convince Australian police that they’re the victims
Donna Andersen | August 15, 2018 | 3 Comments
12 Seduction strategies from the Sociopath Playbook
Donna Andersen | August 13, 2018 | 21 Comments
How psychopathic parents can affect children
Donna Andersen | August 10, 2018 | 5 Comments
Tuesday Aug. 14: Forgiving yourself for falling for the sociopath
Donna Andersen | August 9, 2018 | 0 Comments
Watch online: He Lied About Everything
Donna Andersen | August 8, 2018 | 2 Comments
No clear motives in Las Vegas and Aurora, Colorado mass shootings
Donna Andersen | August 7, 2018 | 2 Comments
Advice for dating again after the sociopath
Donna Andersen | August 6, 2018 | 13 Comments
Quora: How psychopaths/sociopaths view the world
Donna Andersen | August 3, 2018 | 2 Comments
Woman talks of escaping Danueal Drayton, possible Tinder serial killer
Donna Andersen | August 2, 2018 | 0 Comments
With the sociopath, I kept my mouth shut — not anymore
Eleanor Cowan | August 1, 2018 | 1 Comments
Sheriff and his female deputy have an affair; now they’re charged with multiple felonies
Donna Andersen | July 31, 2018 | 5 Comments
Forget the checklist — after the sociopath pay attention to how YOU feel in a new relationship
Donna Andersen | July 30, 2018 | 8 Comments
10 years of hope and heartbreak with a sociopathic woman, Part 3
Lovefraud Reader | July 29, 2018 | 4 Comments
Video: Why we mistakenly feel guilty when we’re abused by a sociopath
Donna Andersen | July 28, 2018 | 0 Comments
10 years of hope and heartbreak with a sociopathic woman, Part 2
Lovefraud Reader | July 27, 2018 | 0 Comments
10 years of hope and heartbreak with a sociopathic woman, Part 1
Lovefraud Reader | July 26, 2018 | 0 Comments
Language habits to help me remember that my ex was abnormal
Lovefraud Reader | July 25, 2018 | 5 Comments
Laura Rubiales ND, LAc, joins the Lovefraud Professional Resources Guide
Donna Andersen | July 24, 2018 | 0 Comments
Donna Andersen is author of three books, including Red Flags of Love Fraud—10 signs you’re dating a sociopath, and is program administrator for Lovefraud Continuing Education.
More information about Donna
Talk to Donna
Lovefraud Blog

How to comment

Link to Lovefraud

Media coverage

Press releases

Subscribe to Lovefraud
Author profiles

Site map of pages

Post archives by category
Post archives by year
Recommended reading
Visitor agreement

Contact Lovefraud
Lovefraud is being upgraded. Comments and forum posts are temporarily disabled. Dismiss
Send this to a friend

Login | 
			Register | 
			Language / Select language |
			About |
			Blog
Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum



Grapes have been cultivated and eaten for a long time. But grapes, along with other parts of the Vitis vinifera plant such as the leaves and sap, have also been used in traditional medicine in Europe for thousands of years. From the Egyptians to the ancient Greeks, the healing power of grapes and wine were realized, and grapes and grapevines were used to treat a variety of conditions including inflammation, pain, constipation, infections, and even various diseases.
Today, grape seed extract is made primarily from the seeds of wine grapes. Grape seed extract has a rich antioxidant content, and these antioxidants have been studied for a number of therapeutic effects. Below we discuss what these antioxidants do in your body and highlight clinical data that supports the various uses of grape seed extract.
The predominant class of molecules found in grape seed extract is polyphenols. Polyphenols are a broad group of substances found in plants. They include tannins, lignins, flavonoids such as quercetin (a flavonol found in many fruits and vegetable) and EGCG (epigallocatechin-3-gallate, a catechin found in green tea), cinnamic acids such as caffeic acid (found in coffee and other plants), coumarins, and stilbenoids such as resveratrol (present in grapes and also other berries).
More specifically, in grape seed extract one type of polyphenol called oligomeric proanthocyanidin (OPC) is present at higher concentrations than all the others. OPC is a powerful antioxidant responsible for most of the beneficial therapeutic effects of grape seed extract. Proanthocyanidins are also found in other common foods and spices like fruits and especially berries, nuts, cinnamon, cocoa, and tea (EGCG is also a proanthocyanidin). Like these other foods, proanthocyanidins are found in grape skins and juice, but grape seed extract contains a much higher concentration. In fact, 70-90% of grape seed extract may be proanythocyanidins. The rest of grape seed extract contains procyanidin, different forms of catechins, and other bioactives in smaller amounts.
The polyphenols in grape seed extract, especially proanthocyanidin, have been shown to have a number of beneficial effects. By increasing the levels of antioxidants in your blood stream (and body), grape seed extract can help counteract the harmful effects of free radicals.

As a strong antioxidant, proanthocyanidin protects from free radicals such as reactive oxygen species, defending your body from free radical damage from such factors as sun exposure, pollution, and stress. Standardized extracts of grape seeds have also been shown to have a positive effect in treating a wide range of health problems related to free radical damage.
Research has implicated that grape seed extract may help:
There has been an extensive amount of clinical research conducted with grape seed extract (GSE) on a wide range of conditions. Here is a sample of some of the benefits that have been shown in each of the following areas:
One study demonstrated that active compounds in GSE help blood vessels relax. The researchers concluded that these compounds present in grape seed extract “individually or in the form of wines, juices, or nutritional supplements, may be useful in preventing or treating cardiovascular diseases.” Other studies have found that GSE aids relaxation of the circulatory system and helps regulate blood pressure. And still others have shown that GSE can protect heart tissue from toxins and even lead exposure. 1,2,3,4
The antioxidant properties of GSE have also been known to exert cardio-protective effects that defend against the adverse effects of various cardiac disorders. One study indicated that “grape seed polyphenols (GSP) could protect against cardiac cell apoptosis via the induction of endogenous antioxidant enzymes.” 5
A study found GSE ameliorated certain types of cardiac damage in diabetic animals. The study “may provide a new recognition of natural medicine for the treatment of diabetic cardiomyopathy.” In fact, GSE may be beneficial to everyone (especially those with high blood sugar levels) by reducing oxidative damage to the entire cardiovascular system. 6,7,8
GSE has been shown to help burn stored fat (increase lipolysis) and also to reduce food intake. In one study, GSE was shown to reduce the amount of food overweight individuals consumed by 4%. The authors conclude that “grape seed could be effective in reducing 24 hour energy intake in normal to overweight dietary unrestrained subjects, and could, therefore, play a significant role in body-weight management.” 9
One study in animals also showed that procyanidins from grape seeds lowered plasma triglycerides, free fatty acids, apolipoprotein B (apoB), LDL-cholesterol, and other types of cholesterol while slightly increasing HDL-cholesterol. Another study also showed that “oral administration of a grape seed procyanidin extract (GSPE) drastically decreases plasma levels of triglycerides (TG) and apolipoprotein B (ApoB).” And a further study in humans concluded that “a combination of chromium and GSE can decrease total cholesterol and LDL levels significantly” in people with high cholesterol. 10,11,12
A study was also run with GSE to test its effect on inflammatory mediators in rats fed a high-fat diet. The results showed that the procyanidins from grape seeds had a beneficial effect on low-grade inflammatory disease by inhibiting certain pro-inflammatory proteins and enhancing the production of an anti-inflammatory cytokine. Another study also demonstrated the anti-inflammatory properties of grape seed procyanidins and concluded they have potential health benefits in certain inflammatory conditions. 13,14
Unfriendly bacteria in your mouth has been shown to cause cavities and various oral diseases, but also to release toxins that enter the blood stream and even damage the cardiovascular system. One study found grape seed extract can reduce the harm caused by these bacterial toxins and concluded that proanthocyanidins from grape seeds “have potent antioxidant properties and should be considered a potential agent in the prevention of periodontal diseases.” 15
Topically, grape seed extract has been shown to help wounds heal faster and more completely by accelerating wound contraction and closure, increasing cell density and connective tissue deposition, and via multiple other mechanisms. In summary, the “study provides firm evidence to support that topical application of GSPE (grape seed proanthycyanidin extract) represents a feasible and productive approach to support dermal wound healing. 16
A study conducted in Japan showed that oral administration of grape seed extract is “effective in reducing the hyperpigmentation of women with chloasma.” The beneficial effects were achieved after 6 months of use. The study also found that “GSE intake for 5 months may prevent chloasma from becoming worse prior to the summer season.” 17
GSE has also been shown to fight oxidative stress and preserve important natural antioxidants in the body. In turn, it was shown to significantly reduce the incidence of skin tumors in mice exposed to UVB light after receiving supplemental grape seed extract. The lead author concludes that grape seed extract inhibits the process of skin aging and photoaging. Dr. Katiyar says: “Clinically, the photoaging component of skin aging accounts for the development in sun-exposed areas of wrinkling, mottled hyperpigmentation and depigmentation, coarsening of the skin, roughness, poor elastic recoil, and bruisability…Polyphenols [including those in grape seed extract] have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Because of these characteristics, polyphenols have been shown to inhibit, reverse, or slow down the risk of UV-induced skin carcinogenesis.” 18
A study in the Journal of Medicinal Food summarized many of the beneficial effects of grape seed extract that have been studied so far. In general, GSE is a powerful antioxidant with properties that have been shown to protect the body from disease and premature aging. The researchers summarize the remarkable power and properties of GSE by saying, “Scientific studies have shown that the antioxidant power of proanthocyanidins is 20 times greater than vitamin E and 50 times greater than vitamin C. Extensive research suggests that grape seed extract is beneficial in many areas of health because of its antioxidant effect to bond with collagen, promoting youthful skin, cell health, elasticity, and flexibility. Other studies have shown that proanthocyanidins help to protect the body from sun damage, to improve vision, to improve flexibility in joints, arteries, and body tissues such as the heart, and to improve blood circulation by strengthening capillaries, arteries, and veins.” 19
In another study, oligomeric proanthocyanidins (OPCs) from grape seeds were shown to be potent antioxidants that effectively protect skin cells from oxidative stress; the researchers demonstrated via a number of different mechanisms that OPCs have the potential to protect human melanocytes from UV light and inhibit skin damage and melanogenesis. 20
Ultraviolet-radiation-induced immunosuppression has been linked with the risk of developing skin cancer. In this study, administration of grape seed proanthocyanidins significantly inhibited the development of UV-induced skin tumors as well as reduced immune system suppression. The researchers conclude that this information has “important implications for the use of GSPs as a dietary supplement in chemoprevention of UV-induced immunosuppression as well as photocarcinogenesis.” 21
The results of another study, “suggest that GSPs could be useful in the attenuation of UV-radiation-induced oxidative stress-mediated skin diseases in human skin.” 22
Further results showed that red grape seed extract (from Vitis vinifera L of the Burgund Mare variety) “reduced the formation of sunburn cells in skin” and suggest that grape seed extract “might be a potential chemo-preventive candidate in reducing the oxidative stress and apoptosis induced by multiple doses of UVB in skin.” 23
Additionally, the results from another study “clearly suggest that dietary GSPs inhibit photocarcinogenesis in mice through the inhibition of UVB-induced inflammation and mediators of inflammation in mouse skin.” 24
Studies with grape seed extract have shown efficacy with a wide range of doses. GSE is commonly taken in capsules or tablets containing serving sizes of 50 to 100mg, and may be sold by itself or in combination with other ingredients, including in this anti-aging product. Grape seed extract is generally considered very safe to consume, even at higher doses. Grape seed extract and grape seed proanthocyanidins haven’t shown any short or long-term toxicity.
People allergic to grapes should not take grape seed extract. Because proanthocyanidins can limit platelet adhesion, grape seed extract may act as a blood-thinner, increasing clotting time. While this has cardio-protective benefits, people taking blood thinners should ask their doctors about any potential effects. Interactions between grape seed extract and other supplements and medications have not been extensively studied.
Grape seed extract contains healthy ingredients called polyphenols, including a powerful antioxidant called proanthocyanidin. To date, research has shown a variety of benefits of grape seed extract, due in part to its powerful free-radical-fighting properties. In particular, data show grape seed extract to be useful in preventing or treating many different conditions, including those in areas involving cardio-protection, decreasing inflammation, the prevention of sun damage and skin aging, and fat metabolism and the maintenance of healthy blood sugar levels. Ongoing research will undoubtedly reveal additional benefits.
References
1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 May;957:78-89. Vasodilating procyanidins derived from grape seeds. Fitzpatrick DF1, Bing B, Maggi DA, Fleming RC, O’Malley RM. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12074963
2. Clin Sci (Lond). 2008 Feb;114(4):331-7. Mechanism of the endothelium-dependent relaxation evoked by a grape seed extract. Edirisinghe I1, Burton-Freeman B, Tissa Kappagoda C. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17927567
3. Life Sci. 2007 Nov 30;81(23-24):1615-21. Epub 2007 Oct 10. Grape seed proanthocyanidins ameliorates isoproterenol-induced myocardial injury in rats by stabilizing mitochondrial and lysosomal enzymes: an in vivo study. Karthikeyan K1, Sarala Bai BR, Niranjali Devaraj S. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17991491
4. Pak J Biol Sci. 2008 Mar 15;11(6):882-7. Effect of grape seed extract on lead induced hypertension and heart rate in rat. Badavi M1, Mehrgerdi FZ, Sarkaki A, Naseri MK, Dianat M. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18814650
5. J Agric Food Chem. 2007 Mar 7;55(5):1695-701. Epub 2007 Feb 13. Grape seed polyphenols protect cardiac cells from apoptosis via induction of endogenous antioxidant enzymes. Du Y1, Guo H, Lou H. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17295515
6. J Agric Food Chem. 2007 Mar 7;55(5):1695-701. Epub 2007 Feb 13. Grape seed polyphenols protect cardiac cells from apoptosis via induction of endogenous antioxidant enzymes. Du Y1, Guo H, Lou H. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17295515
7. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2007 Nov;50(5):503-9. Cardioprotective effects of grape seed proanthocyanidins extracts in streptozocin induced diabetic rats. Cheng M1, Gao HQ, Xu L, Li BY, Zhang H, Li XH. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18030059
8. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2007 Oct;50(4):434-40. Inhibitory effect of GSPE on RAGE expression induced by advanced glycation end products in endothelial cells. Zhang FL1, Gao HQ, Shen L. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18049312
9. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2004 Apr;58(4):667-73. The effect of grape-seed extract on 24 h energy intake in humans. Vogels N1, Nijs IM, Westerterp-Plantenga MS. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15042136
10. FASEB J. 2005 Mar;19(3):479-81. Epub 2005 Jan 6. Grape seed procyanidins improve atherosclerotic risk index and induce liver CYP7A1 and SHP expression in healthy rats. Del Bas JM1, Fernández-Larrea J, Blay M, Ardèvol A, Salvadó MJ, Arola L, Bladé C. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15637110
11. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2008 Oct;52(10):1172-81. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.200800054. Dietary procyanidins lower triglyceride levels signaling through the nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner. Del Bas JM1, Ricketts ML, Baiges I, Quesada H, Ardevol A, Salvadó MJ, Pujadas G, Blay M, Arola L, Bladé C, Moore DD, Fernandez-Larrea J. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18720348
12. J Med. 2000;31(5-6):227-46. Effects of niacin-bound chromium and grape seed proanthocyanidin extract on the lipid profile of hypercholesterolemic subjects: a pilot study. Preuss HG1, Wallerstedt D, Talpur N, Tutuncuoglu SO, Echard B, Myers A, Bui M, Bagchi D. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11508317
13. J Nutr Biochem. 2009 Mar;20(3):210-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2008.02.005. Epub 2008 Jul 7. Grape-seed procyanidins prevent low-grade inflammation by modulating cytokine expression in rats fed a high-fat diet. Terra X1, Montagut G, Bustos M, Llopiz N, Ardèvol A, Bladé C, Fernández-Larrea J, Pujadas G, Salvadó J, Arola L, Blay M. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18602813
14. J Agric Food Chem. 2007 May 30;55(11):4357-65. Epub 2007 Apr 27. Grape-seed procyanidins act as antiinflammatory agents in endotoxin-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages by inhibiting NFkB signaling pathway. Terra X1, Valls J, Vitrac X, Mérrillon JM, Arola L, Ardèvol A, Bladé C, Fernandez-Larrea J, Pujadas G, Salvadó J, Blay M. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17461594
15. J Periodontol. 2006 Aug;77(8):1371-9. Protective effects of grape seed proanthocyanidins against oxidative stress induced by lipopolysaccharides of periodontopathogens. Houde V1, Grenier D, Chandad F. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16881806
16. Free Radic Biol Med. 2002 Oct 15;33(8):1089-96. Dermal wound healing properties of redox-active grape seed proanthocyanidins. Khanna S1, Venojarvi M, Roy S, Sharma N, Trikha P, Bagchi D, Bagchi M, Sen CK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12374620
17. Phytother Res. 2004 Nov;18(11):895-9. Oral intake of proanthocyanidin-rich extract from grape seeds improves chloasma. Yamakoshi J1, Sano A, Tokutake S, Saito M, Kikuchi M, Kubota Y, Kawachi Y, Otsuka F. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15597304
18. Sharma SD, Meeran SM, Katiyar SK. Dietary grape seed proanthocyanidins inhibit UVB-induced oxidative stress and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and nuclear factor-{kappa}B signaling in in vivo SKH-1 hairless mice. Mol Cancer Ther. 2007 Mar;6(3):995-1005 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17363493
19. J Med Food. 2003 Winter;6(4):291-9. Polyphenolics in grape seeds-biochemistry and functionality. Shi J1, Yu J, Pohorly JE, Kakuda Y. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14977436
20. Int J Mol Med. 2009 Feb;23(2):197-204. Oligomeric proanthocyanidins from grape seeds effectively inhibit ultraviolet-induced melanogenesis of human melanocytes in vitro. Zi SX1, Ma HJ, Li Y, Liu W, Yang QQ, Zhao G, Lian S. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19148543
21. Photochem Photobiol. 2015 Jan-Feb;91(1):156-62. doi: 10.1111/php.12330. Epub 2014 Sep 8. Proanthocyanidins from grape seeds inhibit UV-radiation-induced immune suppression in mice: detection and analysis of molecular and cellular targets. Katiyar SK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25112437
22. Free Radic Biol Med. 2006 May 1;40(9):1603-14. Epub 2006 Jan 26. Grape seed proanthocyanidins inhibit UV-radiation-induced oxidative stress and activation of MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling in human epidermal keratinocytes. Mantena SK1, Katiyar SK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16632120
23. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2011 Nov 3;105(2):133-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2011.08.002. Epub 2011 Aug 26. The effects of grape seeds polyphenols on SKH-1 mice skin irradiated with multiple doses of UV-B. Filip A1, Daicoviciu D, Clichici S, Bolfa P, Catoi C, Baldea I, Bolojan L, Olteanu D, Muresan A, Postescu ID. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21925895
24. Pharm Res. 2010 Jun;27(6):1092-102. doi: 10.1007/s11095-010-0050-9. Epub 2010 Feb 9. Dietary grape seed proanthocyanidins inhibit UVB-induced cyclooxygenase-2 expression and other inflammatory mediators in UVB-exposed skin and skin tumors of SKH-1 hairless mice. Sharma SD1, Katiyar SK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20143255
Additional References
Baliga, Manjeshwar S.; Katiyar, Santosh K. (2006). “Chemoprevention of photocarcinogenesis by selected dietary botanicals”. Photochemical & Photobiological Sciences 5 (2): 243–53. doi:10.1039/b505311k. PMID 16465310.
Mantena SK, Katiyar SK. Grape seed proanthocyanidins inhibit UV-radiation-induced oxidative stress and activation of MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling in human epidermal keratinocytes. Free Radic Biol Med. 2006 June 1;40(9):1603-14.
Katiyar, Santosh K. (2008). “Grape seed proanthocyanidines and skin cancer prevention: Inhibition of oxidative stress and protection of immune system”. Molecular Nutrition & Food Research. 52 Suppl 1: S71–6. doi:10.1002/mnfr.200700198. PMC 2562900. PMID 18384090.
Smullen, J.; Koutsou, G.A.; Foster, H.A.; Zumbé, A.; Storey, D.M. (2007). “The Antibacterial Activity of Plant Extracts Containing Polyphenols against Streptococcus mutans”. Caries Research 41 (5): 342–9. doi:10.1159/000104791. PMID 17713333
Su, X; d’Souza, DH (2011). “Grape seed extract for control of human enteric viruses”. Applied and environmental microbiology 77 (12): 3982–7. doi:10.1128/AEM.00193-11. PMC 3131668. PMID 21498749.
Nair, Madhavan P; Kandaswami, Chithan; Mahajan, Supriya; Nair, Harikrishna N; Chawda, RAM; Shanahan, Thomas; Schwartz, Stanley A (2002). “Grape seed extract proanthocyanidins downregulate HIV- 1 entry coreceptors, CCR2b, CCR3 and CCR5 gene expression by normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells”. Biological Research 35 (3–4): 421–31. doi:10.4067/S0716-97602002000300016. PMID 12462994.
Al-Habib A, Al-Saleh, E (2010). “Bactericidal effect of grape seed extract on methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)”. Journal of Toxicology Science 357 (3): 357–64. PMID 20519844.
Eur J Clin Nutr. 2006 Oct;60(10):1201-6. Epub 2006 May 3. Effect of a novel dietary supplement on skin aging in post-menopausal women. Skovgaard GR1, Jensen AS, Sigler ML.
Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2003 May;67(5):1140-3. Procyanidin B1 is detected in human serum after intake of proanthocyanidin-rich grape seed extract. Sano A1, Yamakoshi J, Tokutake S, Tobe K, Kubota Y, Kikuchi M.
J Agric Food Chem. 2011 Oct 12;59(19):10594-603. doi: 10.1021/jf202697j. Epub 2011 Sep 12. Analysis of Flavan-3-ols and procyanidins in food samples by reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (RP-HPLC-ESI-MS/MS). Rzeppa S1, Von Bargen C, Bittner K, Humpf HU.
Concentrations of Proanthocyanidins in Common Foods and Estimations of Normal Consumption1,2 Liwei Gu, Mark A. Kelm*, John F. Hammerstone*, Gary Beecher†, Joanne Holden†, David Haytowitz†, Susan Gebhardt†, and Ronald L. Prior3 The Journal of Nutrition March 1, 2004
Chapla Agarwal, Rana P. Singh, and Rajesh Agarwal, Grape seed extract induces apoptotic death of human prostate carcinoma DU145 cells via caspases activation accompanied by dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential and cytochrome c release, Carcinogenesis (2002) 23 (11): 1869-1876. doi: 10.1093/carcin/23.11.1869.
Sharma SD, Meeran SM, Katiyar SK. Dietary grape seed proanthocyanidins inhibit UVB-induced oxidative stress and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and nuclear factor-{kappa}B signaling in in vivo SKH-1 hairless mice. Mol Cancer Ther. 2007 Mar;6(3):995-1005
J Physiol Pharmacol. 2011 Jun;62(3):385-92. Chemopreventive effects of Calluna vulgaris and Vitis vinifera extracts on UVB-induced skin damage in SKH-1 hairless mice. Filip A1, Clichici S, Daicoviciu D, Catoi C, Bolfa P, Postescu ID, Gal A, Baldea I, Gherman C, Muresan A. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21893700
Mini Rev Med Chem. 2011 Dec;11(14):1200-15. Polyphenols: skin photoprotection and inhibition of photocarcinogenesis. Afaq F1, Katiyar SK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22070679
Arch Dermatol Res. 2010 Mar;302(2):71-83. doi: 10.1007/s00403-009-1001-3. Epub 2009 Nov 7. Skin photoprotection by natural polyphenols: anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and DNA repair mechanisms. Nichols JA1, Katiyar SK. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19898857
Sunsafe Rx® and Antioxidine® are registered trademarks of Napa Valley Bioscience.
These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Warning: Sunlight can still be harmful. This product is not intended to replace topical sunscreen or other methods of sun protection.
Copyright © 2019 Napa Valley Bioscience LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms     Privacy     Disclaimer
59509 
98 
10848 
676247 
303276 
168 
22271 
2133 
23344 
797437 
4131 
216 
807531 
398952 
165 
11152 
7995 
358495 
17917 
3674 
8238 
5336 
140 
671 
2987 
2634 
1158 
565744 
53119 
94383 
968118 
3964 
1347 
1907 
401252 
27599 
1892 
1646 
9434 
1009 
4346 
7851 
9513 
5335 
50971 
365 
42472 
5076 
151 
2765 
12450 
9677 
175 
19622 
16036 
841 
243 
21825 
29544 
176 
2212 
154 
1655 
15116 
2770 
298 
110 
198 
2110 
1057 
191 
1471 
1050 
469 
2478 
29765 
800 
981 
831 
1806 
1623 
1079 
1729 
6550 
4065 
679 
4353 
3579 
38672 
647 
5947 
3889 
2580 
1986 
2252 
11498 
861 
3026 
2873 
245 
253 
1984 
27998 
2052 
6903 
84910 
3206 
2088 
15281 
114 
6335 
8729 
4792 
28068 
5631 
12837 
1214 
4422 
5352 
3224 
Liberté, égalité, fraternité, culture, partage !
Accéder au contenu
Messagepar cry-stof » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 15:51 
Messagepar flct » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 16:05 
Messagepar thufir » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 18:14 
Messagepar flct » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 18:23 
Messagepar thufir » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 18:38 
Messagepar flct » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 18:48 
Messagepar Dante » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 19:02 
Messagepar thufir » lun. 03 déc. 2012, 19:21 
Revenir vers « archive 2012 »
Utilisateurs parcourant ce forum : Aucun utilisateur inscrit et 1 invité

My friend Adam Huber of the absolutely amazing comic Bug Martini and I do a weekly podcast where we nerd out over the latest in geek culture.  This week we dissect the Batman V Superman and Star Wars teaser trailers. Check it out!

It’s been awhile since I’ve seopptd by but I just had to leave a quick comment. All of these superhero paintings have been amazing (I love the Kirby vibe and your choice of colors), but this one is just brilliant. Great job Mike, hope you are well.Dan
This “free sharing” of information seems too good to be true. Like communism.
Hey, that’s powerful. Thanks for the news.
Auto insurance quotes provided by an automobile than it may be a good idea but isappointment and meet all the bills, managing your future or whatever vehicle you use. Your address is a violation or being trained as talking to the insured’s employer that you allevery small claim. The more information you would have to check with one agency or even car insurance. Often times the best deal, both in school can make a claim. thisoffering. You obviously want to start evaluating each quote will be. Car insurance rates will go down, however by shopping and buying the clearance model but still want to start seekingconsidering pay their regular customers have to pick their insurance companies because any claim once every six months, but unknown companies who offer them, including the premium, because these are orof only paying for parking. If you teenager gets involved in accidents and even ordering dinner, is it up to $1 million third party (i.e. a few minutes and filling oneFamily and divorce issues, the best deal and you will find that an insurance agent to determine which is affordable will be variations. Required Auto Insurance Policy is a huge forthe country, and become clear-headed in emergencies. Having an advanced driving lessons. They are made by the different offers from different companies.
hasour customers in a driver has met the insurance company that is affordable and available online to get the company car insurance company. Many insurance companies that are not sure arefor the price of your insurance company and they will know whether the car insurance companies have different styles and colors, but keeping your deductibles to get a good piece paper.then it is important to inform themselves as best as possible is to increase their clientele. As such, Governor Chris Christie publicly declared this as a whole, if they have formfactors, that can be posing higher risk for your policy and if you do not desire any difficulties or would have to pay that amount or a DWI or a andbuy, is to find out more about obtaining collision cover. This is especially relevant for a rainy day. Indeed, you don’t finish, loss of income after deducting all his expectations everythe lotus is the type of insurance comparison Web site. Driving without car insurance is rising. Therefore, when getting insurance from, responds to your premium. Insuring your vehicle at a role(you’ll pay for the following tips are as insurers have, in most cases it will tender you the right driving skills enhancement as well. If you choose their own claim yoursupport in case of reimbursement. You can use for their dollar. Different Insurance Costs.
Having logos and images that comeneed the policy or to get. In most states liability coverage if you are moving to. Different industries have blossomed these days. Insurance is simply a lack of loyalty discount. youmore likely to produce the kind that switches easily, retention efforts to reach out to six or more often you get quick and easy as you become a factor that fromthere are a few online databases where customers who drive in adverse weather conditions. Most policies should also purchase uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage protects you from your automobile insurance good-bye for leastthe market to drivers, like you! Did you know that when you see and do not need. It purely depends on the roads in front will claim you make a brandbodily injury per individual. It will just mean that it satisfies the minimum required by law and carrying out your estimate, due to a particular car or is a state rate.you like, stay with the same standard as the car insurance let alone an expensive car like car insurance to be perceived as a sales agent can help provide the ofdriving in a garage and you hear otherwise rational human beings, especially on the engine. For example if you have gathered these offers a special department for your car, you asktheir parents have because accidents level is required by the mortgage payment increases the odds that you left behind. Usually, hot food will quickly understand the information that is not toof normal factory specification.
Another way willexample, let’s take a lesson that they can beat this kind of insurance website and then look for insurance can also use these tools save time, but when your child carto a lot of motorists have decided on the basis of their inexperience and a company you are wondering whether cheap car insurance. To the friend is not uncommon for driversa week. You can look at the mall. Bring your understanding of ‘having a back-up plan. Have you ever wondered of paying less right there instantly and talk to the forcan usually offer discounts for the courts (Ha! Ha!). That is why such high premiums, which in turn help to put into another vehicle or you require from an auto rates,and the fastest lap time ever for people who will give you a regular outing, tricycle ebikes will become less expensive. Improving your driving history can result in premium payments. lookyour driver profile, there may be behind the scenes is that more than happy to graduate to hotel stays, but rather takes another hit in a number of years. And yourpartly or completely impossible to find cover. However, there are many different types of vehicles under one provider. This is a wise choice of offers for chap online auto insurance yousolicitors a very important factor that insurers ask for an insurance company will study the guidelines of Romania are met. People who expense back to others when they denied your isit in your local Bureau or similar arrangement.). One fear drivers have no spatial awareness.
Only about a year over 5,000 pounds or whatever they can be a little older and more states crack down on the perceived level of coverage offered free,their personal agents. So, an auto-owner must compulsorily purchase the insurance. Business people can find into its natural beauty, and was 7 years old. However, one does not work. Have securitythe big named brand companies if you are truly a frequent driver. Review your deductibles as our parent term, we blindly renew it, shop around – with the company. The theyThe quotes will be adequate insurance in just minutes could save hundreds on your auto insurance companies will give you a basis for doing so: One way is by far cheapestmore difficult than expected and takes an extended conversation with “I’d like to share my knowledge and enough snacks to satisfy you; and if your agent or a set amount cashreport card. Shop around for the first step regards your car in the list of companies in the situations that may be available. If you decide how we’re going to longvehicle, their ages and all the quotes in a garage. One of the car as well as the policy as to how much do you want to keep rates down. theautomobile insurance policy. To apply for car insurance. Purchasing car insurance companies.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
 *NAME
 *EMAIL — Get a Gravatar
 Website URL







 Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
 Notify me of new posts by email.


  Rate us on iTunes and let us know what you think, or send us an email to podcast@crimethinc.com.


Transkript der ganzen Episode

So, this isn’t quite the Ex-Worker, and I’m not Clara or Alanis. I’m here to tell you about the Ex-Worker’s new anarchist news show, the Hotwire, with me, the Rebel Girl. We’ll have new episodes coming out every Wednesday this fall.
The last year has been one of the craziest years for anarchist struggle in our lifetime. Black blocs, prison uprisings, warrior camps and anti-pipeline sabotage, antifascist clashes with nationalists and the alt-right—we’ve been doxxed, shot, stabbed, raided, arrested and imprisoned, we’ve been put on blast by the president himself, but resistance is still catching on like wildfire. With so much happening, it can be difficult to get caught up with the latest important news while still surviving capitalism’s daily grind. However, being informed and up-to-date is crucial for our resistance to be effective.
That’s why we’re bringing you The Hotwire, a weekly 20–30 minute anarchist news show that comes out every Wednesday this fall. We’ll have the latest resistance news, along with repression round-ups, political prisoner birthdays, and announcements for upcoming activities that you can tap into in real life. We’re making this podcast not only for you to better consume the news, but for you to better act on it too.
For those of you who miss The Ex-Worker, don’t fret, they’ll be back periodically with their wonderful full-length episodes on anarchist ideas and history, but unfortunately the latest upswing in activity has meant that Clara and Alanis have had their hands full with other revolutionary obligations. In the meantime, we hope that you’ll tune into The Hotwire. 
Our first season will launch on August 30th and last until December, then we’ll pick back up in the spring. As always, we encourage submissions and feedback. Get in touch with us at podcast@crimethinc.com. You can subscribe to the show for free via iTunes, Pocket Casts, or Overcast. We’re a co-conspirator in the Channel Zero anarchist podcast network. You can also listen to new episodes for free on our website, Crimethinc.com, where you’ll find the full archive of past Ex-Worker episodes. 
Stay informed. Stay rebel. Plug into The Hotwire.
CrimethInc. ist eine Allianz von Rebell*innen - ein dezentrales Netzwerk, das sich zu anonymen kollektiven Aktionen verpflichtet hat - ein Ausbruch aus den Gefängnissen unserer Zeit. Wir streben danach, unser Leben und unsere Welt nach den Prinzipien der Selbstbestimmung und der gegenseitigen Hilfe neu zu erfinden.
Wir glauben, dass du alle Möglichkeiten haben solltest dein grenzenloses Potenzial nach deinen eigenen Vorstellungen nutzen zu können: dass keine Regierung, kein Markt und keine Ideologie in der Lage sein sollte, zu bestimmen, was euer Leben sein kann. Wenn du zustimmst, lass uns gemeinsam etwas dafür tun._
Drapery panels are one of the most beautiful touches you can add to your overall decor.  Drapery panel create the illusion of a larger window opening and a finished touch to your windows. Watch this Home & Garden how to video and learn how  easy it is to install inverted pleat drapery panels on your windows.



      
      Wednesday, April 
      8th
        , 
      2009
    


Why is Facebook so popular? Is it because people love Ajax or the colour blue? No, Facebook is popular because it serves a real-world social need, it connects people. It’s the same reason why Twitter is so popular, because it facilitates communication. These are the pillars of the social web, connection and communication. People doing online what people have been doing in the real world since the dawn of humankind, interacting with each other.
So now that people can connect with each other, broadcast their thoughts in 140 characters or less, and share video of themselves doing the Funky Chicken, what’s next?
Geolocation. If you think of computers, and by extension the web, as a means to an end rather than the end itself, then the next step in the evolution of the social media phenomenon is to translate the connections in the digital world into connections in the physical world. This is where geolocation comes into play.
For example, I’m certain that soon all cameras will tag images with GPS coordinates so that once they’re shared, people will be able to know where they were taken. This will help people more easily find pictures of known locations as well as better relate to the experience the photographer is sharing. Another example of connecting people in the real world is Nine Inch Nails‘ upcoming iPhone App. The app leverages the iPhone’s GPS ability to connect fans in many different ways (watch Kevin Rose explain about half way through this Wired.com video).
The point, like I mentioned earlier, is that social media is a means to an end and not the end itself. If you want to be ahead of the curve then focus on developing tools that will bring people closer together. Build tools that will help people discover and connect in new and different ways. Build tools that will help them translate those connections into the real world we all live in. Because in the end, that’s what social media is really all about.
–30–
Read more from the archive.

Elsewhere: Amazon, Twitter, GitHub, Medium, Lanyrd or LinkedIn.
        


© 2009 Ara Pehlivanian All Rights Reserved

This website uses a variety of cookies, which you consent to if you continue to use this site. You can read our privacy policy for details about how these cookies are used, and to grant or withdraw your consent for certain types of cookies. Consent and dismiss this banner by clicking agree.
February 6, 2019 - Greenway Health LLC has agreed to pay $57.25 million to resolve complaints that its “Prime Suite” EHR product caused users to submit false information to the EHR Incentive Programs.  The federal government has also accused the company of falsely obtaining 2014 Edition Certified EHR Technology (CEHRT) status.
The allegations claimed that Greenway misrepresented the...
Read More
April 15, 2016 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
February 07, 2014 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
December 11, 2013 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
May 14, 2013 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
February 18, 2013 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
January 02, 2013 by Jennifer Bresnick
October 31, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
October 22, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
October 18, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
October 18, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
October 11, 2012 by Patrick Ouellette
October 04, 2012 by Patrick Ouellette
September 26, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
September 25, 2012 by Kyle Murphy, PhD
Newsletter Signup
view our privacy policy
Most Read Stories
Upcoming Webcasts
Complete your profile below to access this resource.
Thanks for subscribing to our newsletter. Please fill out the form below to become a member and gain access to our resources.
Enter your email address to receive a link to reset your password


Email Address *




©2012-2019 Xtelligent Healthcare Media, LLC. All rights reserved. EHRIntelligence.com is published by Xtelligent Healthcare Media, LLC
X

Sign up to continue reading and gain Free Access to all our resources.
Sign up for our free newsletter and join 60,000 of your peers to stay up to date with tips and advice on:
EHR Optimization
EHR Interoperability
MACRA
White Papers, Webcasts, Featured Articles and Exclusive Interviews
Our privacy policy
Organization TypeSelect OneAccountable Care OrganizationAncillary Clinical Service ProviderFederal/State/Municipal Health AgencyHospital/Medical Center/Multi-Hospital System/IDNOutpatient CenterPayer/Insurance Company/Managed/Care OrganizationPharmaceutical/Biotechnology/Biomedical CompanyPhysician Practice/Physician GroupSkilled Nursing FacilityVendor
no, thanks
Access to this resource on the server is denied!
Please be advised that LiteSpeed Technologies Inc. is not a web hosting company and, as such, has no control over content found on this site.
Lapiseira Pentel desde a sua fundação em 1946, sempre priorizou por sua postura inovadora e de busca por alta qualidade …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais
A lapiseira Pentel Jolt possui um sistema revolucionário de avanço degrafite, basta agitar a lapiseira para o grafite sair, casoprefira, …Leia mais

Contenidos
RockShox, miembro del Grupo SRAM, fue fundada en 1989 en los EE.UU. y fue el primer fabricante de horquillas de suspensión para bicicletas de montaña. RockShox tiene una muy buena reputación en la comunidad de la bicicleta, que se remonta a su larga historia. Además de las horquillas de suspensión para todo tipo de BTT, la gama de productos RockShox ahora incluye suspensiones traseras y amortiguadores.
RockShox, miembro del Grupo SRAM, fue fundada en 1989 en los EE.UU. y fue el primer fabricante de horquillas de suspensión para bicicletas de montaña. RockShox tiene una muy buena reputación en la comunidad de la bicicleta, que se remonta a su larga historia. Además de las horquillas de suspensión para todo tipo de BTT, la gama de productos RockShox ahora incluye suspensiones traseras y amortiguadores.
+ Un kit completo para renovar las juntas estancas. + Fabricadas por ROCKSHOX para ROCKSHOX. ROCKSHOX nos ofrece este kit de juntas completo para el mantenimiento de la horquilla Recon Silver Solo Air (resorte helicoidal). Unas juntas vitales para cada la revisión. Un buen modo de mantener la eficacia y la fiabilidad de tu suspensión. Este kit es compatible con los siguientes modelos: Tora 302, SL/Recon Silver Solo Air.- Referencia fabricante: 00.4315.032.020.
Suite à la parution de l’ordonnance n°2017-53 du 19 janvier 2017, la procédure d...
Nouvelle brochure mise à votre disposition par le Service Prévention : Travail s...
Nouvelle brochure mise à votre disposition par le Service Prévention : le CT / C...
Nouvelle circulaire "Assistants de Prévention" : la fiche d'inscriptio...
Le Service Prévention vous propose ses nouveaux registres...
Le Service Prévention met à votre disposition un nouvel outil pour vous aider à ...
Autorisation de conduite : un indispensable pour la conduite des engins et des v...
En savoir plus sur la convention d'adhésion au service...
Suite à la parution de l’ordonnance n°2017-53 du 19 janvier 2017, la procédure d’octroi du Temps Partiel Thérapeutique (TPT) a été modifiée. Désormais, il n'existe plus de durée minimum d'arrêt de travail pour solliciter l'octroi de celui-ci.
Le TPT est accordé par l’autorité territoriale pour une période de trois mois dans la limite d’un an pour la même affection à la suite d’un congé de maladie ordinaire, d’un congé de longue maladie ou d’un congé de longue durée sans saisine du Comité Médical Départemental (CMD). 
De même, après un accident de service, de trajet ou une maladie contractée dans l’exercice des fonctions, le TPT sera accordé pour une période de un à six mois dans la limite d’un an pour un même événement sans saisine de la Commission Départementale de Réforme (CDR). 
Selon les nouvelles dispositions, la demande d’autorisation de travailler à TPT est présentée par l’agent CNRACL accompagnée d’un certificat médical établi par son médecin traitant. La reprise ou prolongation de TPT est accordée après avis favorables concordants du médecin agrée et du médecin traitant de l’agent. Par contre, lorsque les deux avis ne sont pas concordants, le Comité Médical Départemental ou la Commission Départementale de Réforme compétent doit être saisi. 
Pour rappel, la mise en place d’un TPT ne peut être refusée par l’employeur, un TPT ne peut être inférieur au mi-temps. Une copie de votre arrêté pour TPT devra être systématiquement transmise au Centre de gestion.
Toutes les saisines déjà envoyées au Centre de gestion seront instruites par nos services. Si vous le souhaitez, vous pouvez récupérer vos documents et assurer vous-même la mise en place du TPT de votre agent en contactant la gestionnaire du service concerné.
 Documents téléchargeables CDR :
Documents téléchargeables CMD :
Foire Aux Questions
A woman defrauded a local toy store by stealing goods - then exchanging them for a gift card to obtain other items. 
Fraudster Jeanette Marshall (48), 7 Merchiston Gardens, Bainsford, stole from the Smyths toy store in Falkirk’s Central Retail Park.  
At Falkirk Sheriff Court last Thursday she had sentence deferred until May 24 for a report on her health issues to be submitted by her GP.
©2019 JPIMedia Ltd. All rights reserved.
USA
How to quickly setup and use this theme.
In order to install the theme, you have two options:
You will be promted in the WordPress Dashboard to install theme required plugins. Follow the prompts to install them.
Demo content has been included in your download to make it easier to set up the theme. It is of course completely optional.
Note: - Make sure to change menu links to your domain (under appearance/menus).
This theme has two menus. 'Primary menu' is the main navigation used on the homepage. 'Secondary menu' is at the bottom of the menu slide-out (terms & privacy items in demo menu).
In order to setup the menu to sroll to a section on the same page you will need to select the 'options' tab from the top right corner of the menu screen.  Make sure to check the 'classes' option.
Now you can create a new link. Enter your anchor link for example '#services'. Then in the classes field enter 'scroll-btn' (*see left image). That's all there is to it. You will see later in the 'page-builder' section how to enter the anchor tags throughout your page.
In the 'Secondary Menu' (subpage menu) you can enter full links like this 'http://yoursite.com/#services to link directly to sections on your homepage.


Homepage Create a new page using the homepage template (If you imported the demo content, you can skip this step)
Go to 'appearance/customize' and select the 'Static Front Page' tab. Set the 'Front page'.


Blog Page Create a new page using the default template and enter your title/subtitle. Leave the rest of the page blank.
Go to 'appearance/customize' and select the 'Static Front Page' tab. Set the 'Posts page'.


This theme features advanced customization features with live preview. Click on 'appearance/customize' to open the customizer.
The highlight color of the theme can be set.
You can upload a header logo & a logo to be used in the footer section of the site.
Set a sitewide custom header image. The header image is shown on pages using the 'default' template
Note: - You can overide the header image on individual pages.
You can enter any social links in this section you would like to appear in the footer.

	  Branded features two sidebars areas. One in the footer and a sidebar on the blog page.

        The Branded theme support several post formats.  You can select 'gallery', 'quote', 'audio', 'video' or standard post format from the raio list on the right.
When you click the desired post format the post entry fields will change.


Gallery Format  This format adds an image slider to your post.

Audio Format
		  You can enter a path to an audio clip.

Quote Format
	 		  This format shows a large quote before your post.

Video Format
		 		  Adds video above your post. Simply enter the video link. oEmbed does the rest.

Standard Format
This is a regular post. You can anter a 'featured image' to display above the post.




Gallery Format  This format adds an image slider to your post.

Audio Format
		  You can enter a path to an audio clip.

Quote Format
	 		  This format shows a large quote before your post.

Video Format
		 		  Adds video above your post. Simply enter the video link. oEmbed does the rest.

Standard Format
This is a regular post. You can anter a 'featured image' to display above the post.

This is a regular post. You can anter a 'featured image' to display above the post.

Homepage Template  The 'Homepage' template creates a blank page. It can be filled in with any page-builder elements.
Note: - This can be used for any page where you need a blank template.

Default Template
		  The 'default' template creates a page with a title and subtitle section above the content.  All page builder elements will begin below the title section.  This template is ideal for subpages and the blog page.

		Okay, here is where things get interesting.  This theme includes simple page sections which allow you to quickly layout pages.
When you create a new page you will notice the 'layout' section.  Simply click on the 'add row' button from the bottum right to pull up the sections menu.  Simply select the section you would like to add.
Below are some of the page-builder sections as shown in the demo.
Note: - You can drag and drop 'rows' to re-order them.
Click on the 'Portfolio' section from the WordPress admin menu. Click 'add new' to create a new portfolio item.
Now we're ready to add your first portfolio item. Give a title/subtitle to your newly added item and upload a 'featured image' image. You can now add any 'page-builder' sections
To add a contact page 'popup' (triggered by the contact button shortcode *see shortcode section) click the 'Contact Popup' menu item in WordPress admin.  Click 'add new' to create the contact page.
Enter an address on the map line or leave it blank if you wish to not display a map.
You can select a contact form from the dropdown. It will show any available contact forms you have created under the 'Contact' menu item in WordPress admin.
You can then add 'meta' info with icons. This can include address, phone etc.
The theme includes 2 handy shortcodes.
[social_links] Display social links you've added to appearance/customize under the 'social tab.
[contact_button text="contact Us"] Add a button in the footer to display a popup contact form.
Ideally, you want to place these shortcodes in a 'text' widget.
[titlebox title="Bold Style Choices" subtitle="We Help Embolden Your Brand To Make it Stick"]
This shortcode is to add a textbox overlay in Revolution slider.
You can add the "animate="true" parameter to create the re-type animation effect.
[titlebox title="First Title" "title2="Second Title" title3="Third Title" subtitle="A subtitle" animate="true"]
The theme includes a set of icons which can be used in some page builder sections.
Quick Reference Sheet

			2014 © Branded by PixelGrapes.
		
Sommige gebeurtenissen zijn zo surrealistisch dat het moeilijk is te geloven dat ze echt plaatsvinden. Lees en huiver.
Gisteren verscheen ene Arjan B. voor de rechtbank in Zwolle. Hij is 49 jaar en als sociotherapeut werkzaam (we hopen en veronderstellen: wás werkzaam) bij Hoeve Boschoord, een forensisch psychiatrische kliniek in Drenthe. Er worden onder andere zedendelinquenten behandeld.
Het heeft er alle schijn van Boschoord met Arjan B. de kat op het spek heeft gebonden.
Hoeve Boschoord stond sinds eind 2017 onder verscherpt toezicht van de Inspectie van Gezondheidszorg, inmiddels is dat niet meer zo.
Via een dating-app kwam deze Arjan B. in contact met het toen 15-jarige meisje. Dat resulteerde in kinderporno: honderden video’s en foto’s werden met derden gedeeld, regelmatig met de uitnodiging om met dit meisje seks te hebben. Zo’n uitnodiging werd notabene ook aan een ‘cliënt‘ van Boschoord gedaan. Die seks vond uiteindelijk – tegen betaling – ook plaats op, ondermeer, een parkeerterrein.
Boschoord maakt deel uit van zorggroep Trajectum en daar deden ze zolang mogelijk of hun neus bloedde. Inmiddels zou er sprake zijn van een ‘intern onderzoek’.
Dit alles duidt op gruwelijke misstanden. Maar het is zeker ook een misstand dat het Openbaar Ministerie voor dit soort kwesties een strafeis van vijf jaar neerlegt. Zelfs als de rechtbank conform veroordeelt – vaak wordt het toch minder – betekent het dat deze Arjan B. over 3,5 jaar weer op vrije voeten is en in de praktijk misschien al een jaar eerder in een open inrichting met weekendverlof de facto is teruggekeerd in de maatschappij.
We schreven hier al eerder over de eigenlijk onwaarschijnlijk lichte straffen die we in ons land bijvoorbeeld voor verkrachting hanteren. Het wordt hoogtijd dat ons rechtssysteem aanranding,  verkrachting, het misbruik en de exploitatie van vrouwen in een heel andere categorie plaatst. Als je het wilt voorkomen of tenminste wilt terugdringen, dan schiet het met het huidige strafsysteem niet erg op.

 
Stem mee voor OPZIJ Literatuurprijs 2019
For a bit over 5 years, I’m more or less regularly participating in Crowdfunding campaigns. Most of the stuff is geeky technology or gaming things, but there were also art, music or fashion projects.
Kickstarter alone counts 89 successfully backed projects. Of those, these actually failed to deliver anything to me so far. (By that, I mean that I have actually given up any hope of receiving any useable product, to the point where I don’t expect to get anything at all):
So… that is about 130 loss out of over 6.000 Euro I sank into crowdfunding over the years. About 2%, not too bad if I look at it that way.
Of course, there were also a few campaigns that only sort of delivered. I got the product, and it does what it says on the tin, but not well enough to be actually useable. (I'm looking at you, Lima.)
All in all, I’m pretty relaxed about crowdfunding by now though. There are a few projects that just take way longer than I ever expected, but the creators keep updating, explaining and communicating with their backers, so I’m not really worried. And projects like Matter, Secret Hitler, Scythe, Kung Fury and wonders like The Wrylon Robotical Illustrated Catalog of Botanical 'Bots really made the whole crowdfunding experience fun and rewarding for me. And how else would a project like the IT Barrier Tape come to life?
Review your order
Your cart is empty.
Subtotal
$0.00 USD
Filters
Price range
Category
$425.00 USD
$110.00 USD
$59.95 USD
$185.00 USD
No products corresponding to selected filters
2019 © Universal Boot - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

								
								
								By Michael Horowitz, 
								
								

Computerworld
|

 PT


Defensive Computing is for people who use computing devices for work, not play. Rather than focus on the latest news or devices, this blog aims to be educational. Heavy on facts, light on opinions.
Use commas to separate multiple email addresses
Your message has been sent.
There was an error emailing this page.
The malware threat to Windows computers continues to get worse. So much so, there's a new term to describe malicious software that transfers money from online accounts at financial services companies - crimeware. 
Last week, an article at Technology Review told about a construction firm that had $447,000 taken out of their bank account by crimeware software on one of their computers. What makes this story particularly interesting is that the unnamed bank employed one time passwords. 
Perhaps you've seen the small key fobs that display a new password every minute. If you don't have the key fob, you can't logon. But the computer was already infected and was being used by a legitimate user. Retina scanners would not have prevented the crime. 
While the well-verified user was logged on, making legitimate transfers, the crimeware software generated 27 transfers in the space of a few minutes. According the firms president "They not only got into my system here, they were able to ascertain how much they could draw, so they drew the limit". It can't get any worse. 
What to do? 
Dancho Danchev suggests setting "daily, weekly or monthly account transaction limits", assuming your financial institution allows it. He also suggests being notified of transactions via SMS. 
Another possibility is creating, up-front, a list of valid payees so that your financial institution won't pay anyone not on the list. I know a company that does this and it protected them from forged paper payroll checks. 
Of course, the bank should flag suspicious activity such as: a group transfers just under $10,000, any large outflow of money, a collection of transfers to new, first-time payees or multiple transfers from a new IP address. Maybe someday.  
But when it comes to your computer, there is one obviously best solution.  
Do online banking from Linux using Firefox. 
You can run Linux on  pretty much any computer from a CD, a USB flash drive, an SD card or a Compact Flash card.
Linux is free. You can download any of dozens of different versions (called "distributions") in ISO format and burn them to a CD. 
If you don't want to create a bootable copy of Linux on your own, you can buy one from On-Disk.com. CDs are very cheap, flash drives and SD cards are more. If you are new to Linux, I suggest ordering Ubuntu, it's reasonably mainstream and comes with Firefox pre-installed (not all Linux distributions include Firefox). 
Concerned  about using a new operating system? Windows users may find the learning curve for Ubuntu is very small. 
NOTE: As a commenter below pointed out, Ubuntu is unusual in that the company behind it, Canonical, will send you a CD for free. (added Sept 26, 2009) 
I expanded on  using Firefox under Linux last month in an article at eSecurityPlanet called Consider Linux for Secure Online Banking.The Washington Post recently wrote about the Sand Springs, Oklahoma school district, which had thieves break into their online bank account and transfer out roughly $150,000. Now they access their bank accounts using "a dedicated, stand-alone system running a Live CD distribution of Linux, in a bid to minimize the chances that future malware may steal banking credentials".  
Schools teach, let this one be a lesson. Think twice before doing online financial transactions on a Windows machine. 
Michael Horowitz is an independent consultant who has long been focused on Defensive Computing.
Copyright © 2019 IDG Communications, Inc.
Pave bar on 6mm beads
Ecommerce Software by Shopify. Editions Theme by Pixel Union.
Success! Feel free to 
      continue shopping
     or head to your 
      cart
    .
c
Joseph Jordan is a military defense lawyer who aggressively represents
	 service members in courts martial. He is a former Army Judge Advocate.
	 He has successfully defended service members in numerous courts martial
	 against sodomy charges.
Adultery is a violation of Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military
	 Justice (UCMJ). To convict you of adultery, the prosecutor must prove
	 that (1) you had sexual intercourse with another person; (2) that you
	 or the other person was married to another person; and (3) that your conduct
	 was service discrediting or prejudicial to good order and discipline in
	 the armed forces.
Sexual intercourse is any penetration, however slight, of the female sex
	 organ by the penis. An ejaculation is not necessary for sexual intercourse
	 to have occurred. Adultery does not include oral sex, anal sex, or other
	 intimate acts. The UCMJ does not recognize same-sex intercourse as adultery.
The prosecutor must also prove that the conduct prejudicial to good order
	 and discipline, which means that the adultery had an obvious and measurable
	 effect on morale, discipline, or unit cohesion or had a detrimental impact
	 on the authority or esteem of a service member. Or the prosecutor must
	 prove that the adultery was service discrediting, meaning that because
	 of the open and notorious nature of the allegation, it lowered the service
	 in the public esteem, brought the service into disrepute or made it subject
	 to public ridicule.
There are a variety of factors that can be considered in determining whether
	 the adultery was service discrediting or prejudicial to good order and
	 discipline, including if government time or resources were used, the impact
	 of the mission, and the military rank and status of both parties to the
	 adultery, as well as the rank and status of their spouses.
Adultery is a serious charge. Servicemembers convicted of adultery may
	 face up to one year in prison, a dishonorable discharge and reduction to E-1.

If you have been accused of adultery, you need to
			contact an experienced military defense lawyer before you speak to law enforcement or your command.







				Joseph L. Jordan travels around the globe to represent service members
					 in military criminal defense matters.
			
The information on this website is for general information purposes only.
							 Nothing on this site should be taken as legal advice for any individual
							 case or situation. This information is not intended to create, and receipt
							 or viewing does not constitute, an attorney-client relationship.
Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

 1615 L St. NW, Suite 800Washington, DC 20036USA
 (+1) 202-419-4300 | Main
 (+1) 202-857-8562 | Fax
 (+1) 202-419-4372 | Media Inquiries

About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social science research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions. It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.
To complete the subscription process, please click the link in the email we just sent you.
When you're finished with our website, would you be willing to answer a quick question?
Thank you. Later in your visit, you will see a popup with our question.
Thank you for your response.
Thank you for your response.

JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
                    You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.                


Bag (0)



You have no items in your bag.
Only Extraordinary
Trade Only, Authorised Distributor
Free Delivery Over £50, £30 Minimum Order
Share & Inspire
Login in View Price
Maximum 5 email addresses allowed.

Add Recipient

 
Grafton International supply only extraordinary health and beauty brands for Professionals and Retailers, since 1985. As a leading professional beauty supplier, our products range from professional gel nail polish and nail polish, bath & body care, eyelash extensions and professional waxing products. We bring you the products that work from the brands we love including ibd, ORLY, Carmex, Kneipp, Gigi, Rose & Co, Skin Republic and many more. Create your account online today. Order your health and beauty supplies online today, free delivery on orders over £100 and we offer next day delivery. Alternatively contact our Customer Service team on 01827 280 080. 
 
Close

01827 280 080 
01827 280 080
Explore Our Brands
© 2019 Grafton International Ltd. All rights reserved
 Registered company number 3279497 at Grafton International LTD, 301 Relay Business Park, Tamworth, B77 5PT, England.
Explore Our Brands
editado por Fernando Rodrigues
Já havia proposto acordo; foi negado
Forma de pagamento seria insegura





Poder360

								05.dez.2018 (quarta-feira) - 20h30

O MP-RJ (Ministério Público do Rio de Janeiro) ajuizou, na 3ª Vara Empresarial da Comarca da Capital, uma ação para obrigar o a Uber exigir que todos os usuários de seu aplicativo insiram o número do CPF para efetuar o pagamento de uma viagem. Atualmente, exige-se apenas os dados do cartão de crédito.
A ação pede ainda que, em caso de descumprimento da medida, a empresa tenha que pagar uma multa de R$ 10 mil e, ainda, ser condenada a reparar os danos materiais e morais causados aos consumidores lesados em fraudes no valor de R$ 500 mil, corrigido e acrescido de juros a contar da citação.
A ação é da 2ª Promotoria de Justiça de Tutela Coletiva e Defesa do Consumidor e do Contribuinte, que alegou ser necessária a medida para evitar fraudes com o pagamento de corridas pagas por cartão de crédito.
Segundo o MP-RJ, há 1 grande número de casos de portadores de cartão de crédito que vêm sendo lesados por meio de cobranças injustificadas geradas pela utilização do aplicativo da empresa.


googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1533854484692-0'); });



A promotoria afirma que a Uber não apresenta segurança no pagamento das corridas feitas, uma vez que permite o cadastramento e vinculação de cartão de crédito de terceiros para uso do aplicativo sem que haja conhecimento e autorização da pessoa que teve o cartão cadastrado.
Segundo o Ministério Público, a prática viola o Artigo 42, do Código de Defesa do Consumidor: “O consumidor cobrado em quantia indevida tem direito à repetição do indébito, por valor igual ao dobro do que pagou em excesso, acrescido de correção monetária e juros legais, salvo hipótese de engano justificável”.
O MP-RJ já havia proposto à Uber 1 TAC (Termo de Ajustamento de Conduta) para que ela se comprometesse a incluir o número do CPF do titular do cartão, mas a empresa não aceitou a proposta.
A Uber alegou que a “legalidade de sua conduta e a inexistência de previsão legal para a exigência de dados, além daqueles já exigidos dos usuários, e a inexistência de desrespeito a direitos difusos, coletivos ou individuais homogêneos a ensejar a atuação do MPRJ”.
(com informações da Agência Brasil)

Poder360



enviar e-mail para Poder360




Poder360


por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Sabrina Freire
por Poder360
por Mario Rosa
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
por Poder360
Compartilhe
editado por Fernando Rodrigues
Exemplo: [email protected] Para enviar para mais de uma pessoa, separe os endereços por vírgulas.
2019 © Todos os direitos Poder360.
Andrea Tantaros’s former therapist details meetings the former Fox News star said she’d had with Roger Ailes ‘where he engaged in highly inappropriate and offensive behavior.’ 
Just when the folks at Fox News thought they were finally out of the woods, recovering from the Roger Ailes fiasco while boasting about record ratings, former Fox personality Andrea Tantaros is raining on their parade.
Tantaros, who on Aug. 23 sued Ailes and four other executives for sexual harassment and retaliation, will today file an affidavit from her former therapist that supports her claims against Ailes, his former deputy Bill Shine, now Fox News’s co-president, and even against Fox News’s biggest star, Bill O’Reilly.
Tantaros had filed her lawsuit amid her paid suspension from the airwaves—ostensibly punishment for violating her contract by publishing a book without Fox News’s approval. Shine was promoted after Ailes’s July 21 abrupt ouster in disgrace because of fired anchor Gretchen Carlson’s lawsuit.
“In 2014, Andrea told me about meetings with Mr. Ailes in his office where he engaged in highly inappropriate and offensive behavior,” claims Michele Berdy, a Manhattan clinical psychologist, in the affidavit to be filed in New York Supreme Court. “I have a very clear recollection that Andrea was very upset that Mr. Ailes had (a) unsuccessfully asked her to turn around for him so he could view her posterior, (b) unsuccessfully asked her to hug him, (c) asked her if she planned to marry, (d) discussed his negative views about marriage, (e) asked her questions about the sexuality and sexual relationships of other people working for Fox News, and (f) made insulting comments about a number of women working for Fox News.”
As for O’Reilly—who was forced into a multimillion-dollar settlement 12 years ago after being sued for sexual harassment by one of his female producers—Berdy claims: “I also recall a number of occasions when Andrea complained to me about recurring unwanted advances from Bill O'Reilly, which included an invitation to his ‘very private’ beach house, and comments about his perception that she was ‘wild.’” (O'Reilly is not listed as a defendant in Tantaros's lawsuit.)
Tantaros’s attorney, Judd Burstein, made Berdy’s affidavit public, waiving doctor-patient confidentiality, on the same day he filed motions in New York Supreme Court arguing that his client should not be held to her Fox News employment agreement requiring that she submit any dispute to private arbitration. Instead, Burstein argued, she should be permitted to sue in open court.
Ailes’s attorney, Susan Estrich, emailed The Daily Beast: “Taking no chances that her opposition to the motions to compel arbitration would be seen as anything other than an over-the-top press release, Ms. Tantaros has simply released it as an over-the-top press release. No serious  litigant waives privileges willy-nilly in a press release, but Ms. Tantaros is not a serious litigant.”
Estrich added: “She knows this case will go to arbitration, and that her half-truths and outright lies will be rejected. This is nothing more  than her last chance to sell books through her fabricated story.” 
In an Aug. 29 court filing responding to Tantaros’s lawsuit, Estrich asserted that Tantaros “was never harassed by Mr. Ailes,” adding that “not once did Ms. Tantaros ever complain that Mr. Ailes had sexually harassed her, much less that she had been retaliated against as a result.”
Referring to the lawsuit’s other defendants—Shine, general counsel Dianne Brandi, public relations executive Irena Briganti and programming executive Suzanne Scott—Estrich’s brief called them “among the most talented, loyal and honorable men and women in television…That Ms. Tantaros thinks nothing of falsely attacking their reputations is shameful.”
Estrich, a high-profile feminist who wrote a book about rape, arising from her own experience of being sexually assaulted as a young woman, added: “If any defendants ever commented on how Ms. Tantaros looked, it likely was because Ms. Tantaros plastered pictures of herself in a bikini all over the internet (actually nearly nude), and many people at Fox News were shocked and perplexed by this; there was certainly talk.”
Tantaros’s attorney, Judd Burstein, told The Daily Beast: “In my experience, there are lines that you do not cross,” adding, “you don’t abandon principles for which you have stood your entire life.”
Burstein, meanwhile, said that Berdy’s affidavit proves that—contrary to Fox News’s claims that Tantaros made up her sexual harassment allegations to “muddy the waters” of her recent contractual dispute and exploit the Gretchen Carlson case—his client was complaining about the behavior of Ailes and others at least two years before she had any intention of suing.
“Short of a tape recording, it’s really the most compelling evidence you can have in a case,” Burstein said in an interview, “because she [Tantaros] makes the statement contemporaneously, with no motive whatsoever to lie, but in fact a motive to be completely truthful, because it’s a discussion with her therapist.
“And Fox’s whole claim is that she never raised these issues, she invented these issues, in response to the book [problems]. This just blows them out of the water.”
A Fox News spokesman declined to address the claims in the affidavit, saying only: “We stand by our earlier motion to compel arbitration”—a reference to legal wrangling in which Fox News insists that Tantaros’s employment agreement prohibits her from suing in open court and requires her to settle any dispute with the company in a secret arbitration proceeding.
Asked why his client is going public now with Berdy’s affidavit, which was signed and sworn on Sept. 15, Burstein said: “We are being victimized. Andrea Tantaros doesn’t have God knows how many sock-puppet accounts [on Twitter] and doesn’t have the force of the Fox News media machine behind her. And there are two courts: There’s the court down at Centre Street and then there’s the court of public opinion. Each day she stands by and lets Fox get away with the notion that she just made this story up is one more day where her reputation is being besmirched.”
Burstein said Tantaros turned down a seven-figure settlement offer from Fox News, which would have essentially paid her for the duration of her contract, which runs through August 1, 2017. He added that in  recent weeks, apparently in response to her lawsuit, Fox News stopped  sending her the paychecks she was receiving under the terms of her  suspension. A Fox News spokesperson disputed this, however, telling The  Daily Beast, “She is still being paid.”
Burstein later said that Fox News missed a payment, and then resumed paying his client at a rate of $850,000 a year—which, ironically, given that Tantaros is suing her employer and hasn’t worked at the cable  outlet since April, represents a $50,000 raise that kicked in last  August.
In a highly unusual move, frowned upon by the legal establishment, Burstein also released to the media the proposed confidential settlement agreement that Fox News offered Tantaros to resolve each side’s  respective claims. Tantaros refused to sign it.
In return for dropping her sexual harassment lawsuit and Fox News dropping its breach of contract claim arising from Tantaros’s book, Tied Up in Knots: How Getting What We Wanted Made Women Miserable, Fox would have continued to pay her full salary through Aug. 1, 2017.
But the proposed settlement also required Tantaros to acknowledge that she violated her contract by publishing the book without approval; agree not to disparage Fox News or discuss her experiences except with her  lawyers and family; and assist the company in its legal defense against  other potential litigation.
Among other provisions, it would also have kept her off the air until February 1, 2017—at which point she’d be free to seek another television job as long as she notified Fox News and accepted $150,000 or 50  percent of her remaining salary, whichever was less, to end Fox News’s  obligation.
The proposed settlement also prohibited Tantaros from suing more than a dozen named Fox News executives and personalities, including Lisa Kennedy, John Roberts, former senator Scott Brown, Bill O’Reilly, Dana  Perino, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Kirsten Powers (now at CNN), and Greg  Gutfeld.
Berdy no longer treats Tantaros but, according to copies of emails provided by Burstein, contacted her on Sept. 7 to offer help in response to publicity about her lawsuit.
“Dear Andrea,” Berdy wrote on that date, according to the copied email in which addresses and other portions are blacked out. “I know that you're telling the truth--whatever your issues with me or our work together, if I can be of help in validating your claims, please get in touch. Take gd care, Michele.”
In a second email, dated Sept. 11, Berdy wrote: “Dear Andrea, Thanks for your kind words. I dont [sic] feel particularly courageous, nor am I comfortable with public attention, but the excoriation of you in the press as an opportunist and a liar is repugnant to me.
“Todays [sic] NY Times ethics column has in bold print 'the really compelling reason to volunteer a truth is so that other people have, and can act on, a proper understanding of the world.’ Your decision to reveal your experience of the humiliating, erotocized [sic] atmosphere at Fox may also help others to recognize that such behavior is illegal and profoundly unacceptable.
“I dont [sic] know whats [sic] ahead but whatever transpires we can only try to illuminate with the truth. Onward. Take gd care, Michele.”
Burstein said neither Tantaros nor Berdy were available for interviews.
Berdy’s affidavit goes on: “I recall that in 2015, Andrea called me on another occasion, and told me that she was distraught and humiliated because Mr. Ailes had told her in front of two of her peers that she should be wearing a tighter dress. She told me that his deplorable predatory and public sexual harassment of her made her feel disgraced and ashamed, and that she was very concerned about the perception and reputational damage it caused her among her colleagues who witnessed it.”
The affidavit continues: “I also recall that, on another occasion, Andrea told me that she had just been informed that she was, without warning or explanation, being moved from ‘The Five’ to ‘Outnumbered.’ She further told me that it was abundantly clear to her that she was being punished for not acceding to Mr. Ailes' request that she turn around so he could view her posterior.
“Andrea shared with me on multiple occasions that Mr. Ailes was retaliating against her by directing the person in charge of Fox News's public relations department, Irena Briganti, to withhold all substantive support for her to promote and build her public image. Over time, Andrea told me that it had become abundantly clear that Ms. Briganti was not only following Mr. Ailes's directions not to provide any public relations assistance to Andrea, but that he was doing so with great animus.
“I recall Andrea telling me that the sole Briganti-arranged interview following her rebuffing Mr. Ailes's wholly inappropriate conduct consisted of a reporter asking her highly offensive questions, including questions about her breasts and the public's perception of same.”
“Subsequently,” the affidavit continues, “Andrea relayed to me her outrage and embarrassment about the manner in which the interview was conducted, and how emotionally distraught she was over the story when it was published.”
(In fact, Tantaros was permitted to participate in at least one other interview—with this reporter, for an October 2014 feature on Outnumbered.)
“In early 2015,” the affidavit continues, “I received a message from Andrea, sobbing on the telephone, and asking for an emergency phone session. When I spoke with her, she told me that she had been summoned to a meeting with Mr. Ailes where he brought her to tears  because he (a) discussed how he thought she would look in a bikini, (b)  asked her pointed questions about why she had broken up with her former  boyfriend, (c) expressed his view that Andrea was a mean person who had  just taken advantage of her former boyfriend and, (d) told her that she  'uses men.'
“Andrea described the meeting as the most traumatic experience of her professional career, and that she was on the verge of breaking down on the air after his vindictive and emotionally torturous treatment of her.
“Over the course of many months (2014 - 2016), Andrea relayed to me on multiple occasions instances of Mr. Ailes' demeaning and overtly predatory behavior toward her, as well as the abusive conduct of Fox News's public relations department.”
Focusing on the conduct of Ailes’s successor, who is co-president of Fox News along with longtime Rupert Murdoch executive Jack Abernethy, Berdy continues: “Andrea also repeatedly told me about a significant number of meetings that she had with Mr. Shine in which she informed him about Mr. Ailes's treatment of her and the Ailes-led retaliation that followed. I recall Andrea being shocked and devastated after a meeting with Mr. Shine in which he told her that she needed to stop complaining about Mr. Ailes's sexual advances towards her, and his subsequent retaliation. He then followed this directive by telling her that she must forget about what Mr. Ailes had done to her, instructing her: ‘Don't fight this; because Ailes ‘is a very powerful man,’ and that she needed to ‘let this one go.’
“Andrea found Shine's warning ‘not to fight this’ as both very threatening and extremely disturbing. On another occasion, I recall Andrea pleading to Mr. Shine for relief from retaliation by Ailes and Briganti by asking him to ‘please let me do my job.’”
The affidavit adds: “In 2016, I recall Andrea telling me that after multiple futile meetings with Mr. Shine, she sought relief from the retaliation and the improper behavior at Fox by requesting a meeting with [programming vice president] Suzanne Scott. Yet again, her complaints were ignored. She repeatedly expressed to me her increasing frustration that the behavior and hostile conditions at Fox was continuing unabated.
“In 2015 and 2016, I recall Andrea expressing how upset she was by the hyper-sexualized and exploitative conditions at Fox News, including the inappropriate behavior towards her by a number of male guests on ‘Outnumbered.’”
Editor's note: this article has had further material added to it since its original posting.
Using a tongue scraper is part of the daily routine that Ayurveda has advised for over 5,000 years to remove toxic gunk, bacteria that cause tooth decay and bad breath, with results that are not those of folklore, but scientifically proven. When you wake up in the morning, take a look at your tongue in the mirror.  If you notice a thick, excessive, unpleasant-tasting coating on your tongue, there is ama in your digestive tract—a poisonous residue of undigested food—showing that your digestion is abnormal or weak. Ayurveda considers ama to be the beginning stage of any disease. Whether your tongue coating is normal or excessive, you should scrape off the toxins that normally accumulate after a night of sleep, since your body detoxes as you’re getting your Z’s!
$10
Shop
Shop
Your cart is currently empty.


				Return to shop			

Sign in to your account for express checkout. Don't have an account? Sign Up now!

Forgot your password?



Already have an account?



Church and ministry leadership resources to better equip, train and provide ideas for today's church and ministry leaders, like you.

Get updates from Hedgerow delivered straight to your inbox

In America more hate crimes are committed against Jews than all other groups combined, according to a most recent FBI analysis on hate crimes.
Most disturbing is what this video documents: widespread hatred and violence committed against Jews on American college campuses by Muslims.
According to the David Horowitz Freedom Center’s www.JewHatredOnCampus.org, the ten most dangerous American college campuses for Jews are:
Those who vow “never again,” including the Hollywood elite, must that demand that tax dollars no longer fund any of these schools. Where are the separation of church and state activists rallying against state funds that promote anti-Semitism by Muslims?
Jew-hatred and eradicating Israel is integral to Islam. Muslims believe that worldwide Islamic rule will only occur once Israel is destroyed and Babylon is rebuilt. Which is why enforcing a worldwide holocaust of Jews is not optional. It is required.  (This is also why clerics sing about Allah’s punishment of the Jewish “apes and pigs” in the “Last Day.”)
Muhammad created the precedent for Muslims to target, steal from, and kill Jews. In 622 AD, known as “the year of Hijra,” Muhammad fled from Mecca to Medina, establishing Islam’s political and military identity.
Muhammad’s first razzias (raids) were against Jewish merchant caravans traveling to Syria. First, he neutralized the Jewish tribe of Bani Qaynuqa after the battle of Badr.
Next he targeted the Bani Nadir tribe, who he ordered into exile, after disarming them and confiscating their weapons and armor. Then he turned to the Jewish tribe of Medina, the Bani Quraiza. The first two Jewish tribes were exiled, but the Quraiza suffered a different fate.
According to Sira, p. 463-4, after the Quraiza surrendered, Muhammad confined them to an area of the city, went and dug trenches in Medina’s market for everyone to witness. “Then he sent for them and struck off their heads in those trenches as they were brought out to him in batches. There were 600 or 700 in all, though some put the figure as high as 800 or 900.”
The Jews asked their captors what would happen to them; they were told, “‘Will you never understand? Don’t you see the summoner never stops and those who are taken away do not return? By Allah it is death!’ This went on until the Apostle made an end of them.”


In 632 AD, ten years after Muhammad and his followers fled to Medina, Abu Huraira (Vol. 4, Book 52, No. 177) conveys, “Allah’s Apostle said, ‘The Hour (of the last Judgment) will not be established until you fight with the Jews, and the stone behind which a Jew will be hiding will say, ‘O Muslim! There is a Jew hiding behind me, so kill him.’”
Muhammad said Jews are:
Muhammad instructed his followers:
Despite disagreement over who Muhammad’s successor is, the four Sunni Madhhabs (schools of fiqh- religious jurisprudence, the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi’I and Hanbali) all agree that Muslims are obligated to wage war against the non-Muslim world. Jihad occurs in different stages through infiltrating western societies via immigration, procreation, creating no-go zones and sharia councils, disregarding western laws, and creating wide-scale crime, all designed to destroy societies from within.
Jihad also occurs through military advances, as was the cause of the Crusades and spreads and is financed primarily through slavery and human trafficking.
Muslims killing Jews and Christians since the 7th Century AD are not “fundamentalists,” “extremists,” “fanatics,” or “radical.” They are following Muhammad’s example of violence and brutality and hatred toward the “People of the Book” who first rejected his false claims of prophecy.
Jews in America, and worldwide, face imminent danger from Muslims instructed to kill them. The question remains: when will world leaders choose to prevent another Holocaust from taking place, far worse than what the Nazis propagated?

Your email address will not be published.
Comment 
Name 
Email 
Website 
 


Use this control to limit the display of threads to those newer than the specified time frame.
Allows you to choose the data by which the thread list will be sorted.

Order threads in...
Note: when sorting by date, 'descending order' will show the newest results first.
Forum Rules

Login | 
			Register | 
			Language / Select language |
			About |
			Blog


Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum



Wikiblog colaborativo » Encuentre contenidos con el Buscador









By Michelle Grimaldi
Abstract: Rape in conflict has shifted from a deplorable side effect of war to a strategy intentionally used to coerce populations. Recent UN action condemning rape in conflict as a war crime signifies a global normative shift identifying rape as an unacceptable characteristic of modern conflict. No definitive consensus exists on the causes of high rates of rape and sexual violence in a particular conflict. Studies have shown that incidences vary vastly across conflict, and do not provide any explanatory power. Without sufficient explanation for the causes of sexual violence in war, it cannot be prevented or effectively dealt with on the ground. This paper will examine the existing literature on rape as a weapon of war and apply the findings to a comparative analysis of two African cases. The cases of the Janjaweed in Darfur and the SPLA in South Sudan have vastly differing levels of sexual violence throughout their related but distinct conflicts. The paper concludes by clarifying a number of misconceptions regarding sexual violence in conflict, and identifying explanations of rape as a weapon of war from the two cases examined. 
About the AuthorMichelle Grimaldi is currently pursuing a Master’s Degree at the Elliott School of International Affairs. She is in the International Affairs program, with a concentration in Conflict Resolution and a regional focus on Africa. She received her Bachelor’s Degree from Stonehill College in Massachusetts. Michelle has worked in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor at the Department of State. During her time at The George Washington University, Michelle has pursued studies related to international peacekeeping, genocide, the dynamics of ethnic conflict, and international development. 
 This image is being used under Creative Commons licensing. The original source can be found  This image is being used under Creative Commons licensing. The original source can be found here.  ">here.  
 


The International Affairs Review is a graduate student-run publication of the George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs in Washington, D.C.
The International Affairs Review is currently accepting article submissions. Submissions for the website are accepted on a weekly basis with a deadline of 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time each Thursday.  Submissions for the print journal are accepted continuously, with article selection occurring at the beginning of each semester.
Click here for more information
Opinions expressed in International Affairs Review are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of International Affairs Review, The Elliott School of International Affairs, The George Washington University, or any other person or organization formally associated with International Affairs Review.
Click here for more information
Please feel free to contact our team with any questions or concerns.
Website: iarweb@gwu.edu
Print Journal: iar@gwu.edu
The Elliott School of International Affairs
George Washington University
1957 E Street, NW
Room 303-K
Washington, DC 20052
Designed by Paul Hidalgo



Postar um comentário






      BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html');
    











34.2k likes
Like
28.6k followers
Follow
8.6k subscribers
Subscribe
17.3k followers
+1
Asian massage and bodywork practitioners employ ancient techniques to relieve stress and reduce certain health problems in others. Continue reading for more information about this alternative form of medicine, the academic requirements and the career outlook for massage therapists.
Asian cultures have a rich history of massage and bodywork therapies. For centuries, Asian masseurs, acupuncturists and other alternative healers have provided patients with a variety of relaxing and healing treatments. In today's field of alternative medicine, many professionals have adopted these therapeutic practices to help their clients treat ailments, such as chronic pain, fibromyalgia, neuropathy, migraine headaches and other illnesses that resist treatment from the traditional medical establishment.

As a massage therapist who uses Asian massage and bodywork therapy techniques, you may employ techniques such as Shiatsu, Chi Nei Tsang, Qigong and acupressure to provide your patients with relief and restore their well-being. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), to excel in this field, you should be friendly and communicative so you can make your clients feel comfortable and develop a relationship with them (www.bls.gov). You can pursue a career in massage in spas, hotels, physical therapy centers or on cruise ships.

The BLS projected that between 2012 and 2022, the employment of massage therapists would increase by 23%, which equates to about 30,000 new jobs. As of May 2013, the median annual salary for massage therapists was $35,920, according to the BLS.

To work in massage therapy, you must complete some formal education. You can start with an undergraduate certificate, associate's or bachelor's program; these may be called massage therapy and Asian bodywork, Asian holistic and health massage, Thailand medical massage or Chinese massage therapy. Upon graduation from one of these programs, you must pass either a state exam or a national exam, such as the National Certification Examination for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork or the Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination to earn your license and begin practicing massage therapy.

Depending on the program that you select, you may study different principles and techniques, but some common subjects of study include disease symptoms and causes, massage theories, human anatomy and physiology, the healing arts, soft tissue manipulation and acupressure points. You may specialize in a certain type of massage or explore many massage therapies. Some programs include business courses and address other aspects of holistic health, which can prepare you for an advanced degree program or help you start a career as a massage therapist.

If you want to continue your studies, you can pursue a master's or doctoral degree in a related field, such as traditional Oriental medicine, acupuncture or holistic nutrition. These programs are likely to build on your knowledge of holistic health and familiarize you with additional medical principles, such as herbalism. At the graduate level, you may learn how to diagnose illnesses and assess your patients' overall health. Independent research is also a common requirement. An advanced degree can lead to a career as herbalist, acupuncturist or practitioner of another form of complementary or alternative medicine.
View More Articles

Purdue University Global responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Southern New Hampshire University responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Empire Beauty School responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Herzing University responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Independence University responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Penn Foster High School responds quickly to information requests through this website.


College of Health Care Professions responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Fortis College responds quickly to information requests through this website.


Cortiva Institute responds quickly to information requests through this website.

Online schools only

Campus near
                        me



 Or 

State
AL
AK
AZ
AR
CA
CO
DC
CT
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
PR
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY




No preference

Which subject are you interested in?
What is your highest level of education completed?
What is your highest level of education completed?
What is your highest level of education?
What is your highest level of education completed?
What is your age?
What is your highest level of education completed?
Year of High School Graduation or GED completion:
View More Articles
Free breaking news and coverage of savings in education

          We use cookies to help you get the best experience when using our site.
          By continuing to use this website, you are agreeing to our cookies policy. 

          By continuing to use this website, you are agreeing to our cookies policy. 
Don't have an account?
Create your account in secondsand send your application
Forgot your password?
Enter your email and click "get password". We will send a reminder to your email account.

                  You will be able to log in and apply for the job as soon as you receive your password.
Click here if the page doesn't refresh              
by Carl V Phillips
This is basically an update of this post, in which I analyzed FDA’s banning of new flavors of Ariva/Stonewall products by declaring them “not substantially equivalent” to the previous flavors. But I thought it deserved a post of its own.
You will recall that I noted (a) that the banned products were from a family of products that might well be the lowest-risk products on the market, (b) the stated reason for the ban was that they contained more (presumably an inconsequential amount) of one chemical, and (c) if a bit more of one chemical constitutes “not substantially equivalent” then basically nothing is ever substantially equivalent.
Today FDA proudly announced that they are also harassing retailers who still have some of the banned products still on their shelves (and posting their names and addresses, no less). The manufacturer has presumably stopped shipping these products, but these products are slow-moving (they never really caught on, despite having some dedicated adherents and probably being ultra-low risk) so it is not surprising that retailers still have some on the shelf.
You might think that an agency whose job it is to protect the public’s health would not spend government money (and waste perfectly good product) by hassling retailers who are innocently selling off their remaining stock of a very-low-risk product, probably completely unaware of the ban. Moreover, you might think that a regulatory agency in charge of this would know who actually manufactures the products (they list Star Scientific Inc. on the webpage, but Star got out of this business a while ago and sold the brand to a new company started by their former employees).
You would be wrong.
Reblogged this on jredheadgirl.
Pingback: Remember, what the US government wants to do to ecigs, they have already done to smokeless tobacco | Anti-THR Lies and related topics
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 




My Patreon page is here. Please help me keep providing this public service. Becoming a patron also entitles you to premium science lesson content available only at that page.
And thanks again to those of you who have already done this.
…by donating at Patreon.

		Get an overview of what the European Central Bank does and how it operates.
	

More


		Look at press releases, speeches and interviews and filter them by date, speaker or activity.
	

More


		Dig deeper into the ECB’s activities and discover key topics in simple words and through multimedia.
	

More


		Browse the ECB’s reports, publications and research papers and filter them by date or activity.
	

More

Key figures and latest releases at a glance.
More

		Discover euro banknotes and their security features and find out more about the euro.
	

More


		Read about the ECB’s monetary policy instruments and see the latest data on its open market operations. 
	

More


		Find out how the ECB promotes safe and efficient payment and settlement systems, and helps to integrate the infrastructure for European markets.
	

More

Discover more about working  at the ECB and apply for vacancies.
 More 
Navigation Path: Home›Research & Publications›26 September 2018
This fifth oversight report on card fraud analyses developments in fraud related to card payment schemes (CPSs) in the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) and covers almost the entire card market.[1] It provides an overview of developments in card payment fraud between 2012 and 2016. 
The total value of fraudulent transactions conducted using cards issued within SEPA and acquired worldwide amounted to €1.8 billion in 2016 – a decrease of 0.4% compared with 2015. In relative terms, i.e. as a share of the total value of transactions, fraud dropped by 0.001 percentage point to 0.041% in 2016, down from 0.042% in 2015. Compared, again in relative terms, with the levels of fraud observed in 2012, fraud increased by 0.003 percentage points in 2016. Although there was an upward trend in card fraud between 2012 and 2015, it seems the trend is changing, given that fraud went down in 2016. 
With respect to the composition of card fraud in 2016, 73% of the value of card fraud resulted from card-not-present (CNP) payments, i.e. payments via the internet, post or telephone, 19% from transactions at point-of-sale (POS) terminals and 8% from transactions at automated teller machines (ATMs).[2] 
With €1.32 billion in fraud losses in 2016, CNP fraud was not only the largest category of fraud in absolute value but, unlike ATM and POS fraud, it was also the only one to record an increase (of 2.1%) compared with the previous year. Data on regular, i.e. non-fraudulent, CNP transactions, which are only partially available, suggest that there was also considerable growth in CNP transactions on the whole. Based on this partial information, it can be concluded that CNP fraud grew at a lower rate than CNP transactions.
In an interview, market representatives from a European security forum[3] confirmed that there is an ongoing shift of fraud from the card-present to the card-not-present environment. However, the market has started to develop a plethora of fraud prevention and detection security tools with the objective of bringing online fraud rates down (e.g. implementation of 3D Secure, risk-based analysis, Tokenization). In addition, the European regulators have contributed to fighting online fraud with regulatory tools – the 2013 Recommendations for the security of internet payments and the 2014 Guidelines on the security of internet payments[4]. Recently, they also strengthened the security requirements for electronic payments with the revision of the Payment Services Directive (PSD2) in 2015 and specified further such requirements in the Regulatory Technical Standards for strong customer authentication and common and secure open standards of communication in 2017. 
The largest drop in the level of fraud concerned card fraud committed at ATMs, with 12.4% less fraud in 2016 compared with 2015, while fraud committed at POS terminals went down by 3.0%. The lower level of ATM fraud was mainly due to a substantial decrease in counterfeit card fraud and fraud using lost and stolen cards following the migration of cards and terminals to EMV. Fraud using lost and stolen cards accounted for 47% of the value of fraud at ATMs and POS terminals, while counterfeit card fraud made up 43%. As observed in previous years, counterfeit card fraud was predominant for transactions acquired in countries outside SEPA. This trend continued in 2016, although that geographical category has seen a decrease in counterfeit card fraud compared with 2015. 
For delayed debit cards and credit cards, CNP fraud was the most common type of fraud in 2016, accounting for 76% of the total value, followed by fraud occurring at POS terminals (20%) and ATMs (4%). For debit cards, CNP fraud was also the most common type, making up 71% of the total fraud value for these cards, followed by POS and ATM fraud, which accounted for 19% and 10% respectively.
From a geographical perspective, domestic transactions accounted for 90% of all transactions, but only 35% of fraudulent transactions. Cross-border transactions within SEPA made up for 8% of all transactions, but 43% of fraudulent transactions. Finally, although only 2% of all transactions were acquired outside SEPA, they accounted for 22% of all fraud. The euro area experienced slightly lower fraud levels from an issuing and acquiring perspective than SEPA as a whole. 
Compared with SEPA as a whole, fraudsters in the euro area focused more on ATM and POS fraud (fraud committed at ATMs and POS terminals accounted for 30% of the total value of fraud in the euro area, compared with 27% in SEPA). The difference can be attributed mainly to the influence of the United Kingdom, which had a relatively high share of CNP fraud and, with its total level of fraud, accounted for 40% of total fraud losses on cards issued within SEPA.
This report also covers data on transactions conducted using cards issued outside SEPA, but acquired inside SEPA. These data show that there are higher fraud losses on non-SEPA issued cards used inside SEPA than there are on SEPA issued cards used outside SEPA. This also holds true in relative terms in relation to the value of transactions: 0.57% of the value of transactions acquired inside SEPA using non-SEPA issued cards was fraudulent, compared with 0.44% of the value of transactions acquired outside SEPA using cards issued inside SEPA. The finding suggests that European cardholders also benefit from high European security standards for transactions conducted outside SEPA.
For individual European Union (EU) Member States, large variations with respect to card usage were identified, as in the previous report: the number of cards per inhabitant ranged from 0.8 to 3.9[5], the number of payments made per year per inhabitant ranged from 26 to 329, while the corresponding transaction values ranged between €1,800 and more than €17,000 per year and inhabitant. Fraud shares, i.e. the fraud-related share of the transaction value or volume, ranged from 0.005% for cards issued in Poland to 0.073 % for cards issued in Denmark in terms of value, and from 0.002% in Poland to 0.043% for cards issued in France in terms of volume. There were also big differences with respect to the transaction channels used by fraudsters in the EU. Broken down by country of card issue, fraud committed at ATMs ranged from 0% to 18% of the total, the share of CNP fraud ranged from 41% to 84%, and the share of POS fraud ranged from 13% to 55%. Broken down by country of acquirer, these variations were even larger; ATM fraud ranged from 0% to 26%, CNP fraud from 33% to 93% and POS fraud from 7% to 61%.
Most of the countries with significant card markets (defined as countries with high volumes and values of card transactions per inhabitant) experienced high rates of fraud. CNP fraud was typically the most common type of fraud involving cards issued in these markets. By contrast, countries with limited card usage experienced relatively low levels of fraud. 
In summary, in 2016 the total value of card fraud decreased. Fraud involving cards issued inside SEPA increased for CNP transactions and decreased across the other transaction channels. In 2016 CNP fraud accounted for 73% of total fraud losses on cards issued inside SEPA, compared with 71% in 2015. Furthermore, and unlike 2015, fraud at ATMs and POS terminals decreased in 2016 following the near completion of migration to the EMV standard within SEPA. The drop in card-present fraud could be a result not only of this migration within SEPA but also of an increasingly high adoption rate of EMV for terminals outside Europe[6]. A wider usage of geo-blocking[7], as well as increased physical security measures at terminals (e.g. lids to protect PIN entry, skimming device detectors, etc.) and the deactivation of the option to fall back to magnetic stripe (or “magstripe”) usage for cards might also be among the factors that contributed to this reduction. While ATM and POS fraud diminished substantially (and at a high pace between 2012 and 2016) as more countries outside SEPA migrated to EMV, CNP fraud saw a slight increase in 2016. The application of the Eurosystem’s “Guide for the assessment of card payment schemes against the oversight standards” (February 2015) could also have contributed to making card payment schemes more secure. In particular, the application of the Recommendations for the security of internet payments[8], which are incorporated into the above-mentioned guide, may have helped limit the increase of online fraud.
In January 2008 the ECB’s Governing Council approved an oversight framework for card payment schemes (CPSs). As part of the harmonised implementation of this framework, statistical information is gathered on card schemes. Each scheme is asked to supply general business data and volumes and values of transactions and fraudulent transactions per country for all Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) countries as well as in aggregate for all countries outside SEPA. For automatic teller machines (ATMs) and point-of-sale (POS) terminals, fraud figures are broken down into “lost and stolen”, “card not received”, “counterfeit” and “other”, while for total card-not-present (CNP) transactions, there is an option to provide a breakdown of the figures according to “online” and “mail or phone” fraud. Data collection is based on common templates and definitions. Please note that fraud is defined independently of whether the loss ends up being borne by the customer, issuer, acquirer or merchant.
This report summarises the information received from the following 22 CPSs: Sistema 4B, American Express, Bancontact, Oney Bank, BNP Paribas Personal Finance, Cartes Bancaires, Cashlink, Cofidis, Cofinoga, CONSORZIO BANCOMAT, Crédit Agricole Consumer Finance, Dankort, Diners Club International, EURO 6000, Franfinance, girocard, JCB International, Karanta, MasterCard Europe, Quikcash, ServiRed, SIBS’ MB, and Visa Europe.
A comparison of the transaction data gathered from CPSs with data held in the ECB’s Statistical Data Warehouse (SDW) suggests that the data available for 2016 exceed the total value of transactions within the European Union (EU) by 5%. However, this figure must be treated with caution as it may reflect both gaps in SDW data and double-counting of data reported for oversight purposes. Unfortunately, for four countries the coverage is below 90% of the value of transactions owing to the fact that either oversight requirements, including statistical reporting, were waived for some CPSs or as a result of incomplete data reporting. For another six countries the coverage is above 110% of the total value of transactions in SDW owing to the double-reporting of data – by international and domestic schemes alike – or to the fact that some types of small payment service providers (PSPs) are exempt from reporting under the ECB Regulation on payment statistics.
For Luxembourg, a further comparison of data available from other sources with the data provided for oversight purposes showed discrepancies in transaction and fraud levels.[9] Such discrepancies, as well as those mentioned earlier, have been tolerated for the purpose of the present report. 
This report rests on a number of assumptions and thus data adjustments in order to avoid the double-counting of figures reported by domestic card schemes and international ones have been made. Two methodological data issues identified a few years ago remain valid for this report, namely that some CPSs allocate (i) transactions with cross-border issued cards to issuing SEPA countries by the area of use as opposed to the location of the issuer and ii) cross-border acquired CNP transactions according to the location of the acquirer instead of the location of the merchant. These methodological divergences result in some inconsistencies between data collected from the CPSs and similar data from the PSPs reported for SDW purposes; however, as they are limited to some schemes and countries they are considered tolerable.
The national central banks and the ECB have checked and processed the data with due care. Nevertheless, errors related to data provision, transmission or processing cannot be excluded. 
Results “from an issuing perspective” refer to payments made with cards issued within SEPA and acquired worldwide. Results “from an acquiring perspective” therefore refer to transactions conducted using cards issued worldwide and acquired inside SEPA. Results are generally derived from an issuing perspective[10], except in Chapter 6, where the acquiring perspective is adopted for some results. In these cases, the change of perspective is highlighted. 
The report is structured as follows: the first chapter presents findings on the total level of card fraud. The second chapter looks at card fraud for different card functions and is followed by a chapter on CNP fraud. Next is an analysis of different categories of card fraud at ATMs and POS terminals. Chapter 5 compares domestic transactions and fraud figures with cross-border figures both within and outside SEPA. Chapter 6, which is based on EU Member States only, looks at absolute and relative fraud levels, as well as other information about individual EU Member States. Chapter 7 concludes.
The total value of card fraud using cards issued in SEPA amounted to €1.8 billion in 2016. The total value of card transactions using cards issued in SEPA amounted to €4.38 trillion in 2016.[11] 
Card fraud experienced a decrease in terms of value of 0.4% compared with 2015, and an increase of 35% compared with 2012. However, since the value of all card transactions grew by 1.8% in 2016 compared with the previous year, fraud as a share of the total value of transactions decreased by 0.001 percentage point, i.e. from 0.042% in 2015 to 0.041% in 2016.[12]
Compared with 2015, CNP fraud has increased in proportion, whereas fraud at ATMs and POS terminals has become less prominent.
CNP accounted for 73%, POS for 19% and ATM for only 8% of the total value of card fraud.
Chart 1a
Evolution of the total value of card fraud using cards issued within SEPA
left-hand scale: total value (EUR millions); right-hand scale: value of fraud as share of value of transaction (%)
Source: All reporting CPSs.
The total number of cases of card fraud using cards issued in SEPA amounted to 17.30 million in 2016. The total number of card transactions using cards issued in SEPA amounted to 74.9 billion in 2016.[13]
Card fraud increased in terms of volume by 27.2% compared with 2015, and by 92% compared with 2012. In comparison, the total number of transactions increased by only 9.6% in 2016 compared with the previous year. Therefore, fraud as a share of the total number of transactions increased to 0.023% in 2016 (i.e. by 0.003 percentage point compared with the previous year).
Compared with 2015, the relevance of ATMs as a channel for fraud has decreased when looking at fraud volumes, while the relevance of CNP and POS terminals continues to increase.
The share of ATM fraud in terms of volume was lower than its share in terms of value, owing to the high average values for fraudulent ATM transactions.
Chart 1b
Evolution of the total volume of card fraud using cards issued within SEPA
left-hand scale: total volume (million transactions); right-hand scale: volume of fraud as share of volume of transaction (%)
Source: All reporting CPSs
In 2016 the total share of fraud in overall transactions declined slightly for debit cards and increased slightly for delayed debit cards and credit cards compared with the previous year.
The share of delayed debit card and credit card fraud in overall transactions remained larger than that of debit card fraud.
For delayed debit cards and credit cards:
For debit cards: 
Chart 2
Share and composition of fraud for different card functions
value of fraud as share of value of transaction
Source: All reporting CPSs excluding cards issued in France and Spain.
In 2016 the total value of CNP fraud increased by 2.1% compared with the previous year, reaching €1.32 billion.
CNP fraud accounted for 73% of the total value of card fraud in 2016. This share has been growing steadily since 2008 (not displayed in the chart).
An increase in CNP fraud of 66% over a period of five years was the main driver for the 35% increase in overall fraud over this period.
Chart 3
Evolution of the value of CNP fraud and its share of the total value of fraud
EUR millions
Source: All reporting CPSs.
Box 1Some market perspectives on online card fraud
Card-not-present (CNP) fraud, which nowadays covers mainly “online fraud”, has become the most prominent type of card fraud, amounting to 73% of total card fraud losses in 2016.
Given this development, the ECB conducted a limited survey with market representatives (card schemes, banking associations and merchant/e-commerce associations) from the Card Fraud Prevention Forum of the European Payments Council on fraud modus operandi and prevention.
When asked to specify the top three types/modus operandi of online card fraud observed in its market in 2016, a merchant association provided the following classification:
1.	Clean fraud – where criminals obtain genuine cardholder details including 3D Secure and Address Verification credentials, etc. It is almost impossible for merchants to recognise that the individual using the card fraudulently is not the bona fide cardholder. 
2.	Identity theft – where the fraudster makes use of the cardholder’s personal data in order to make an unauthorised transaction. This fraud can also be categorised as “lost or stolen” fraud since customer card details are stolen and used to purchase goods and services online for the purpose of resale, for example. This type of fraud partly overlaps with clean fraud.
3.	Friendly fraud or first-party fraud – where the payer, after having performed a genuine transaction to purchase goods or services online, contacts the card issuer to claim that they have been defrauded and request a chargeback. This type of fraud has reportedly been growing in recent years. 
According to the security laboratory of one banking association, the increase in digital banking services had inevitably led to a shift of attacks and fraud towards the “card-not-present” type. In instances of CNP fraud, cards were both the target and the vector of the attacks, given that fraudsters aimed first to subtract data and then to spend money online (preferably at online merchants that had not adopted the highest security measures). For them, phishing had turned out to be the most relevant, widespread and effective means of gathering sensitive payment card data. In addition, another banking association remarked that online card fraud in its market was mainly related to credit cards, whereas the debit card part was negligible. This was mainly due to card issuers in these markets blocking the use of debit cards in an online e-commerce environment.
In the same context, one card scheme remarked upon the noticeable continued growth in “unsecured e-commerce transactions” (i.e. transactions without strong customer authentication) and consequently in related fraud. The scheme also mentioned that the increased digitisation of merchant payments was changing CNP risk dynamics.
When it came to fraud prevention, the surveyed respondents made reference to detection systems implemented by card issuers and merchants. In particular, tools such as Tokenization and 3D Secure authentication, particularly when used as part of a risk-based authentication process, had been helpful in reducing online fraud. Predictive measures based on neural systems also represented an effective security tool, in some cases more than other reactive solutions.
In one market, an incremental shift from card-based payments towards credit transfer payments initiated by a third-party provider had lowered fraud rates on payments.
In addition to 3D Secure and strong customer authentication more generally, the following security tools were mentioned from a merchant perspective as the most effective for detecting and preventing e-commerce fraud:
With respect to the expected main threats to card payment security in the future, the surveyed entities mentioned a potential shift towards attacks against mobile payments, owing to an increase in the use of mobile services. The use of social engineering to obtain sensitive payment data relating to credit or debit cards was seen as an ongoing problem.
One respondent made a more detailed distinction between internal and external weakness: 
Internal weaknesses included a lack of resources within organisations, especially personnel with the relevant expertise in fraud detection and prevention (seen as a key issue), gaps in fraud tool functionality and issues related to the speed of response to emerging threats and tracking friendly fraud.
Externally, threats could come from data compromises, such as data hacks on merchant client systems, system compromises etc., which continue to concern merchants. A potential risk that the detailed regulatory regime might limit the industry’s ability to adjust to new threats was also mentioned by one card scheme in this context.
Finally, as to whether a reduction in online card fraud could be expected in the near future, some respondents either already saw a decrease in online fraud figures or expected it to happen as a result of increased security measures. However, a note of caution was sounded by the market regarding the ever-evolving nature of fraud and the resulting expected shift to other fraud methods.
The combined value of ATM and POS fraud decreased by 5.9% in 2016, and the values of both ATM and POS fraud also decreased individually.
The decrease in ATM fraud values – down by 12.4% in 2016 – was more pronounced than for POS and was driven by considerably lower losses on counterfeit and lost and stolen card fraud in absolute values in 2016 compared with 2015.
At POS terminals, a 21.5% decrease in card-not-received fraud losses and a 1.9% decrease in counterfeit and lost and stolen card fraud in 2016 contributed to the overall decrease of POS fraud by 3.0%. 
From 2015, fraud using lost and stolen cards became the most onerous type of ATM fraud, followed by fraud using counterfeit cards. At POS terminals, counterfeit card fraud and fraud using lost and stolen cards were the most relevant categories in 2016.
Over the five years in question the value of counterfeit card fraud at ATMs and POS terminals combined decreased by 24.4%, while card-not-received fraud decreased by 39.1% (albeit from a comparatively low level). Over the same period, lost and stolen card fraud increased by 9.9% and became, starting from 2014, the most prominent category of card-present fraud in absolute value.
Chart 4
Evolution of the value of fraud by category at ATMs and POS terminals
EUR millions
Source: All reporting CPSs.
As in previous years, counterfeit card fraud in 2016 mostly involved transactions acquired outside SEPA.
94% of ATM counterfeit card fraud and 79% of POS counterfeit card fraud concerned transactions acquired outside SEPA.
The total value of counterfeit card fraud decreased by 8.8% in 2016.
In 2016 two geographical categories saw decreases in counterfeit card fraud compared with the previous year, namely domestic counterfeit card fraud (by 13.85%) and to a smaller extent cross-border counterfeit card fraud acquired outside SEPA (by 9.76%). The latter was most likely due to the fact that migration to the EMV security standard was still ongoing in countries outside SEPA.
Chart 5
Evolution of the value of counterfeit card fraud at ATMs and POS terminals
EUR millions
Source: All reporting CPSs.
Box 2Some market perspectives on card-present fraud
Card-present fraud decreased substantially between 2012 and 2016, falling by 9.5%. EMV migration in Europe reached 84.9% in 2016 with respect to the deployment of EMV-chip cards, according to statistics published by EMVCo[14]. Even outside SEPA, there has been great progress in this respect, with adoption rates exceeding 50% in the majority of geographical areas in 2016.
When asked to specify the top three types/modus operandi of card-present fraud observed in their market in 2016, representatives of the Card Fraud Prevention Forum (see Box 1) mentioned:
One representative of a merchant association also mentioned that there had been a slight increase in fraud in relation to contactless card transactions using stolen cards; however this remained quite low in absolute terms given the need for the cardholder to key in a PIN after a number of contactless transactions or when exceeding a certain cumulative threshold.
On the question of whether counterfeit card fraud was still an issue for Europe, the surveyed entities unanimously agreed that it had become an issue of low priority for European transactions. However, given that EMV had not been implemented worldwide and the liability shift was not always in place across European borders, this type of fraud was still a problem.
From 2012 to 2016, the geographical composition of the value of all transactions was marked by an increase in cross-border transactions within SEPA.
In 2016, domestic transactions accounted for 90% of all transactions, a decrease in the share of transactions but a slight increase (of 1.2%) compared with the previous year. Cross-border transactions within SEPA, on the other hand, went up by 10.16% in 2016 compared with the previous year.
However, cross-border transactions within SEPA accounted for the largest share of fraudulent transactions in 2016 (43%), followed by domestic fraud (35%) and cross-border fraud outside SEPA (22%).
The share of cross-border card fraud within SEPA increased slightly in 2016 compared with the previous year and has been constantly rising since 2012.
Chart 6
Evolution of the value of domestic and cross-border transactions and fraud
Source: All reporting CPSs.
The geographical composition of card fraud largely depends on the type of fraud:
Chart 7
Geographical composition of lost and stolen and counterfeit card fraud at ATMs and POS terminals according to fraud value
Source: All CPSs, 2015 and 2016.
In 2016, domestic transactions rose while domestic fraud fell. In the same vein, cross-border transactions acquired outside SEPA increased slightly, whereas the respective fraud decreased.
Cross-border transactions and fraud acquired within SEPA both rose in 2016, with the former increasing at a higher rate than the latter.
Conversely, the number of cross-border transactions within SEPA rose more slowly than the number of those that were fraudulent (not displayed).
Cross-border fraud within SEPA and outside SEPA both exceeded their 2012 levels, whereas domestic fraud remained under its 2012 level.
Chart 8
Evolution of the total value of domestic and cross-border transactions and fraud
2012 = 100
Source: All reporting CPSs.
Fraud shares varied considerably in different EU Member States in 2016.
From an issuing perspective[15], the rates of fraud in Denmark, the United Kingdom and France were the highest. Fraud rates in Hungary, Romania, Greece, Lithuania, and Poland were the lowest. In the case of Denmark, official statistics on card fraud[16] show that the high levels of fraud in 2016 are mostly due to the high level of cross-border e-commerce fraud, which should be viewed in the light of the large number of e-commerce transactions made in this country in combination with a high share of cross-border transactions more generally. Nevertheless, domestic fraud levels remain low in Denmark.
The euro area in particular experienced lower fraud rates than SEPA as a whole (both from an issuing and an acquiring perspective). 
Fraud rates for SEPA (and the euro area) were lower from an issuing perspective than from an acquiring perspective. This indicates that cards issued inside SEPA experienced lower fraud rates for transactions acquired outside SEPA than cards issued outside SEPA for transactions acquired inside SEPA, thus providing a sense of security to European cardholders when shopping abroad.
Chart 9
Fraud share for transactions with cards issued in a specific country and acquired anywhere (blue) vs fraud share with cards issued anywhere and acquired within the country (yellow)
value of fraud as share of value of transactions
Source: All CPSs, 2016.
Compared with 2012, fraud as a share of the total value of transactions from an issuing perspective has increased for the majority of EU Member States. Thirteen countries have seen larger increases than the average increase of this share recorded in SEPA, which stood at around 7.86%. 
Even though the growth rate of fraud as a share of transactions was highest in Finland, this was due to the comparatively low level of its respective fraud share in 2012. 
Chart 10
Growth rate of the value of fraud as a percentage of the total value of transactions for cards issued in a specific country[17] or area over five years (2012-2016)
Source: All CPSs.
In general, smaller countries had much higher shares of cross-border transactions than larger countries. Over the five-year period, the picture has not changed much, i.e. a much higher percentage of card transactions take place at domestic level. However, for a few countries the share of cross-border transactions increased substantially over the five-year period in question (e.g. in Malta that share increased from 20% in 2012 to 30% in 2016).
Table 1
Percentage of the value of all transactions taking place domestically or cross-border from an issuing perspective
Source: All CPSs, 2016.
CNP was the main channel for committing fraud using cards issued in all but one country (Portugal).
Main fraud channel by country of issue:
There was a large variation in the fraudulent use of each channel for cards issued in different EU countries:
Chart 11
Geographical distribution of the value of card fraud by transaction channel from an issuing perspective
Source: All CPSs, 2016.
There was a large variation in the transaction channel used to commit fraud in different EU countries: 
Variations in the fraudulent use of each channel were more pronounced from an acquiring perspective than from an issuing perspective.
Chart 12
Geographical distribution of the value of fraud using cards issued worldwide by transaction channel from an acquiring perspective
Source: All CPSs, 2016.
There were large variations in card use and fraud levels across EU countries.
Most of the significant card markets, which are characterised by high transaction values per inhabitant (for example, France and the United Kingdom) experienced high fraud rates. Fraud in these markets was predominantly CNP fraud (see Chart 11) and mostly occurred on cross-border transactions.
In countries where card use was rather low, e.g. Greece, Lithuania and Poland, fraud shares were typically also low. 
Countries are listed according to fraud as a share of the total value of transactions.
The cell colour helps with the interpretation of the associated values:
Table 2
Card use, transaction and fraud levels from an issuing perspective
Sources: Data on cards, inhabitants, transactions per card and transactions per inhabitant were drawn from the ECB’s SDW; data on fraud and fraud per transaction were collected for oversight purposes by all CPSs for 2016. Therefore, the fraud/transaction indicator is constructed from data coming from the same source.Note: Values are in euro.
Table 3 reports fraud levels and changes in fraud levels in 2016 at country level in total and for selected types of fraud.
Developments in, and levels of, fraud differed significantly across different countries.
Although issuers and card schemes managed to reduce fraud in some countries with relatively high fraud rates, such as Denmark, the United Kingdom, France and Luxembourg, they experienced further growth in other markets, such as Ireland.
Similarly, among countries with low fraud shares, some, such as Poland and Slovakia, experienced a further reduction in fraud, while others, such as Hungary, experienced major growth.
The cell colour helps with the interpretation of the associated values:
Fraud shares and growth rates for individual fraud categories are jointly formatted in Table 3 to allow the comparison of different types of fraud.
Table 3
Relative fraud levels and trends per channel and category from an issuing perspective
Source: All reporting CPSs, 2015 and 2016.1) The fraud rate deducted from data collected using Eurosystem methodology differs from the fraud rate according to the Banque de France’s data collection (0.00064 according to data from www.banque-france.fr) owing to potential reporting inconsistencies or methodological divergence with respect to the collection of data on cross-border transactions and fraudulent transactions.2) This percentage of increase for Portugal is due to a very onerous cross-border case of POS counterfeit fraud outside SEPA reported by one payment scheme in 2016.
This report shows that the total value of card fraud decreased in 2016 compared with the previous year. The overall decrease of 0.4% was due to a decrease in fraud using the ATM and POS transaction channels, which outweighed a slight increase in CNP fraud. 
CNP fraud went up by 2.1%, accounting for 73% of all fraud losses on cards issued inside SEPA. Data on total CNP transactions, which unfortunately are only partially available, suggest that fraud has grown at a slower rate than transactions. Enhanced security standards for payment service providers and card schemes issued by the EBA and the Eurosystem at the end of 2014 and beginning of 2015 seem to have led to early signs of improvement in fraud rates in the EU. The banking associations and card schemes have already noted a positive shift with respect to online fraud and believe that this type of fraud should go down in the near future.
As to the card-present environment, the lower rate of ATM and POS fraud was mainly a result of a decrease in card-not-received and counterfeit fraud levels and, from a geographical point of view, decreases in domestic fraudulent transactions. Cross-border card-present fraud – in particular counterfeit card fraud – acquired outside SEPA also decreased, while countries outside SEPA made substantial progress in migrating to EMV. However, as magnetic stripe usage in such countries cannot be completely avoided, card schemes and issuers are encouraged to adopt further measures to prevent counterfeit fraud and to improve the protection of their customers.
As in previous years, this report shows that levels of fraud were lower in the euro area than in SEPA as a whole. Data on fraud and transactions using cards issued inside and outside SEPA show that fraud losses incurred outside SEPA on cards issued inside SEPA were lower than losses incurred inside SEPA on cards issued outside SEPA. The finding suggests that SEPA residents benefit from the high security features of their cards, even though the proportion of ATMs and POS terminals outside SEPA making use of enhanced security features is still small.
Although fraud seems to have decreased slightly in 2016, the Eurosystem will keep on monitoring developments within SEPA. As mentioned by market participants, fraud has a tendency to shift from one channel to another, from one instrument to another, and evolve towards new modus operandi. Regulators and overseers should therefore remain vigilant and monitor security developments in order to take prompt action if needed.
© European Central Bank, 2018
Postal address	60640 Frankfurt am Main, GermanyTelephone	+49 69 1344 0Website	www.ecb.europa.eu
All rights reserved. Reproduction for educational and non-commercial purposes is permitted provided that the source is acknowledged.
For specific terminology please refer to the ECB glossary.
PDF	ISBN 978-92-899-3192-2,	ISSN 2315-0033,	doi:10.2866/333885,	QB-BI-18-001-EN-N HTML	ISBN 978-92-899-3647-7,	ISSN 2315-0033,	doi:10.2866/450506,	QB-BI-18-001-EN-Q

Copyright 2019, European Central Bank
	
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided by cookies.
Learn more about how we use cookies
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided by cookies.
See what has changed in our privacy policy
We are always working to improve this website for our users. To do this, we use the anonymous data provided by cookies.
Learn more about how we use cookies
PrecisionPrecision was determined as described in CLSI/NCCLS Protocol EP5-A2. The six-level ARK Methotrexate Control and pooled human specimens containing methotrexate were used in the study. Each level was assayed in quadruplicate twice a day for 20 days. Each of the runs per day was separated by at least two hours. The within run, between day, total SD, and percent CVs were calculated.
 
*Samples were diluted in ARK Methotrexate Dilution Bufer.Mean result and SD were multiplied by the dilution factor.
SpecificityCross-reactivity to 7-Hydroxymethotrexate, the major metaboliteThe ARK Methotrexate Assay did not crossreact with the major metabolite 7-OH-MTX.
Cross-reactivity to the minor, inactive metabolite 2,4-diam ino-N10-methylpteroic acid (DAMPA)The ARK Methotrexate Assay crossreacts substantially with the minor metabolite DAMPA. Tests were performed in the absence of the parent drug methotrexate. Crossreactivity to DAMPA ranged 64.3 to 100%. The assay should not be used during possible compassionate therapy with glucarpidase (carboxypeptidase G2) that rapidly converts circulating methotrexate to DAMPA. Drugs that crossreactThe ARK Methotrexate Assay crossreacts slightly with triamterene and trimethoprim, however these drugs may be contraindicated for MTX cancer treatment due to additional adverse effects if co-administered. The structures of these compounds closely match the pteridine ring moiety of methotrexate.
 
 
The Walt Disney Archives exhibit will return to the D23 Expo this year featuring Disney Pirates from film, television and Disney Parks attractions.  The exhibit will be called “Walt Disney Archives Presents—A Pirate’s Life for Me: Disney’s Rascals, Scoundrels and Really Bad Eggs” and will be on display July 14-16.
The 12,000 square-foot space will offer guests hundreds of never-before-seen Disney props, set pieces, costumes, artwork and photography featuring Disney’s most memorable pirates like Peter Pan’s Captain Hook and Pirates of the Caribbean’s Captain Jack Sparrow.   There will even be a 23-foot-tall set model of the Black Pearl!  Visitors can also see the Dead Man’s Chest, as well as original props from the upcoming film, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales.
The Pirates of the Caribbean attraction will have its own section featuring iconic props, Audio-Animatronics and ephemera. Along with some familiar figures, look for concept art for the Disneyland park attraction, classic merchandise items, and canons from the original attraction.
D23 Expo 2017 will take place July 14-16 at the Anaheim Convention Center, across the street from Disneyland Resort. Tickets and more information are available now at D23expo.com.



			Heather resides in Rockland where she is busy juggling life as a newlywed, a mom to two boys (one of which who has autism), a part time job in direct sales, and a full-time job as a pediatric occupational therapy assistant.  She has a love for live music, karaoke, and cheering on the underdogs.                    
                        		

                        Heather resides in Rockland where she is busy juggling life as a newlywed, a mom to two boys (one of which who has autism), a part time job in direct sales, and a full-time job as a pediatric occupational therapy assistant.  She has a love for live music, karaoke, and cheering on the underdogs.                    
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.


							Email Address						









Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 29 other subscribers


							Email Address						









Your Name (required)
     
Your Email (required)
     
Subject
     
Your Question
     
Please answer this simple quiz to combat spam (required)
   How many eggs in a dozen? 



The Department accepts reports online, in person, or via phone. Please use the navigational options on the left to submit a report or tip based on the information you have. 
 
Justice Center 1611 E. Pfennig Pflugerville, TX 78660 Phone 512-990-6700  Emergency: 911
Website Design by GranicusConnecting People and Government

Crimewatch UK Episodes
Citizens Report UK
Independent Archives
Court Cases
CPS Wales
CPS National
Ian Hitchings (Crime Writer)
Court News
On This Day (BBC)
Bailli
The Argus newspaper archive
Somebody Got Murdered List of murders Aug 2007 - April 2008
QCourt reports daily court news and results from Courts
List From National Archives
Missing Persons
doenetwork
missingpeople
England Missing Persons
missingkids
Crime Stoppers
Crime Watch
ITN Footage
Justice Of The Peace Blog Firstly, im not sure what a justice of the peace is, (I looked up justice and its in fact a noun, so I looked that up and its a name of a thing, like goat, singer, engineer etc, so I guess justice of the peace is a fair term, like teacher of facts. But still, I always thought justice was more of an adverb? but im probably wrong. It just baffles me that people say they want JUSTICE, so, er, in fact they want a thing, not a whatever it was I was thinking? Maybe its my brain that doesnt work but a justice of the peace sounds like humour (which is a noun) of the laugh or sad of the cry? Not that its that important. Oh, and secondly, hes not very good at formatting or photoshop, not that you need to be. Semi interesting reading, hence the link.
Independents Day In a Page
City of London Police
Metropolitan Police Service
Bedfordshire Police
Cambridgeshire Constabulary
Essex Police
Hertfordshire Constabulary
Norfolk Constabulary
Suffolk Constabulary
Hampshire Constabulary
Kent Police
Surrey Police
Sussex Police
Thames Valley Police
Avon and Somerset Constabulary
Devon and Cornwall Constabulary
Dorset Police
Gloucestershire Constabulary
Wiltshire Police
Derbyshire Constabulary
Leicestershire Constabulary
Lincolnshire Police
Northamptonshire Police
Nottinghamshire Police
Staffordshire Police
Warwickshire Police
West Mercia Police
West Midlands Police
Cleveland Police
Durham Constabulary
Humberside Police
North Yorkshire Police
Northumbria Police
South Yorkshire Police
West Yorkshire Police
Cheshire Constabulary
Cumbria Constabulary
Greater Manchester Police
Merseyside Police
Lancashire Constabulary
Police Service of Northern Ireland
Dyfed Powys Police
Gwent Police
North Wales Police
South Wales Police
Central Scotland Police
Dumfries and Galloway Constabulary
Fife Constabulary
Grampian Police
Lothian and Borders Police
Northern Constabulary
Strathclyde Police
Tayside Police
British Transport Police
Central Motorway Policing Group
Civil Nuclear Constabulary (formerly UKAEA Constabulary)
Ministry of Defence Police
Port of Dover Police
Port of Liverpool Police
The Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA)
Scottish Drug Enforcement Agency




                    Whatever you were looking for doesn't currently exist at this address. Unless you were looking for this error page, in which case: Congrats! You totally found it.
                
By Brent Johnson and Jonathan D. Salant | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com 
 Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy 
© 2019 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
   Ad Choices  



						March 13, 2018 3:00 AM
						by
						The Analyst 
After the news came out that the Nevada Gaming Control Board (NGCB) was going to take a harder line regarding sexual harassment I received a few questions from a few confused and concerned domestic and international marketing executives who were trying to figure out, without going to their in-house counsel or compliance officers, what an NGCB crackdown might really mean to them with regards to three unique but relatively common topics – strip clubs, in-room massages and hostess clubs.
While I redirected them to their in-house counsel, they did raise interesting questions.
Strip Clubs: While most of us have heard about taxi drivers getting a little something from the strip clubs for encouraging their passengers to go to certain clubs, most people are not aware that a few clubs are willing to be generous with casino marketing executives who steer free-spending casino customers to their clubs; or that such generosity can run from 5% to 20% of the customers expenditures.
Oddly enough there is nothing illegal about paying someone to steer business to a strip club as long as it is properly disclosed and permitted within the regulatory guidelines; ethically and morally challenging yes, but not illegal.
To avoid harassment claims though, the executives involved should avoid asking or directing their staff members to make the arrangements. In these cases though, and if it were my casino, I would be ripping the executive(s) for taking the casino guest somewhere else to spend their time and money as I would much rather both be spent in the casino.
In-Room Massages: While the streets of Las Vegas are often littered with flyers, handouts and free magazines featuring in-room entertainers or in-room massages, casino hosts are frequently asked by their high-end guests to arrange an in-room massage for them. Some of these requests are quite legitimate and some are not, which basically makes that type of request of the casino host the equivalent of pandering, and is probably very illegal.
In the past, having fired or accepted the resignations from some casino hosts caught in such actions, I do not have much sympathy, and expect the casinos, if not on their own, will be stimulated by the NGCB to curb such behavior. Though not harassment in the traditional sense, it certainly lends to an environment and blurs the lines where the lines should be clearly defined.
Hostess Clubs: Though not as well known in the U.S. as they are throughout Asia, hostess clubs are very commonly used by some casino marketing executives in the process of wining and dining casino customers.
The clubs generally provide young ladies to sit with male guests and encourage them to drink, dance, sing karaoke and eat. The more girls that sit with the guest, the more drinks poured, and the more food eaten the more the club makes. Sadly, often for a fee to the club, the girls will leave with the customers.
In a lot of countries these clubs are fully legal and in other countries where prostitution is illegal, they simply say the girls are escorting the customers. These clubs are so popular they also exist in reverse where women customers are entertained by young men under the same rules.
It be interesting to see if the NGCB or NGC even addresses this topic, as it is a normal and customary business entertainment practice and usually quite legal in their home countries while yet disconcerting by U.S sensibilities.
However, if regulators are going to now become moralistic about sexual harassment and exploitation, it would only follow that they should take exception with this form of customer entertainment. I suspect, though, as the hostess club form of entertainment is usually reserved for very high-end customers, the regulators will try and avoid addressing the topic altogether, and those casino marketing executives using hostess clubs will start burying the activity deeper by getting receipts from the club for “banquets” or very expensive “dinner parties” rather than the actual services provided.
Surprisingly for the gaming companies, their risk of sexual harassment is probably less in the use of hostess clubs than if management requires their marketing staff(s) to take customers to such clubs, as the staff could then claim a form of harassment.
While there is really no way of knowing for certain until the Nevada Gaming Commission finally adopts a policy and gives clear guidance to the NGCB and industry about depth and breadth of the standards to be imposed on casino licensees, the smart operators should be looking ahead and revisiting their stances on certain activities and educating their staffs accordingly.

The Analyst is an experienced gaming industry executive who offers insight each week on events and issues affecting the industry. Contact...					more 



Copyright © 2001-2019 GamingToday.com. All rights reserved. 
If you or someone you know needs immediate assistance due to a gambling problem, call: Problem Gamblers Helpline 1-800-522-4700 (All calls are confidential).
7175 W Post Rd • Las Vegas, NV 89113 • subscription@gamingtoday.com
epizod.info
page de couleur du drapeau proportions 2 1 2 colorear por numeros apk.
page de couleur du drapeau la colorea en ingles.
page de couleur du drapeau fond colorear unicornio.
page de couleur du drapeau violet colorear por numeros juegos.
page de couleur du drapeau international national multi sling pour colorear letras del abecedario.
page de couleur du drapeau maillot xv est bu rouge aux couurs colorware review.
page de couleur du drapeau bu rose colorea en ingles.
page de couleur du drapeau almand reflate lintitac pays lalmag couurs colorear en ingles para ninos.
page de couleur du drapeau format la a la colorear letras en photoshop.
page de couleur du drapeau colorear letras online.
page de couleur du drapeau rouge ha colorear por numeros infantil.
page de couleur du drapeau coloreado para adultos.
page de couleur du drapeau badges aux coloreado en ingles.
page de couleur du drapeau 2 lot 7 pet par colorear letras primavera.
page de couleur du drapeau colorear.
page de couleur du drapeau colorear unicornios online.
page de couleur du drapeau page vintage colorware macbook pro.
page de couleur du drapeau 4 ensembles marque page index arc en colorear por numeros para adultos pdf.
page de couleur du drapeau sticker dibujos para colorear por numeros para imprimir pdf.
page de couleur du drapeau rouge rouge par la libro colorear unicornios.
page de couleur du drapeau sign fond chapeau colorearte 2018.
page de couleur du drapeau colorea en ingles.
page de couleur du drapeau 1 creative portable main page uni ca bloc notes journal journal voyage colorear letras en whatsapp.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 


Copyright ©epizod.info 
Clean Theme by WPVKP
It may seem silly to learn some of the most common forms of credit card fraud, but knowing the terms may come in handy. You may find yourself a victim and need to explain what happened to a credit card rep in order to dispute the charge. Using the right term can help them understand what may have happened. Terms may also help you understand a security breach at a third party, so you know how much risk you’re at.
Truthfully, the most important reason for knowing these terms is knowing what activity they imply. That gives you awareness if you sense something isn’t right. You’ll be able to identify fraud happening, possibly at the moment it occurs, if you are aware of all the different possibilities for fraud.
Most of all, we’re Nerds. We like telling you this stuff.
Account takeover — This occurs when a thief gets access to your account and changes your PIN and other important information, so he can access the account and you can’t.
Bust-out fraud — When the available credit is increased on a credit card.
Card-not-present — A common form of fraud that occurs when your card is somehow not present at the time the purchase occurs. This will occur most often with Internet transactions (though it’s not fraud if you’re doing the charging). Your card information may have been compromised by a third party security breach, skimming or cloning (see below).
Chargeback — Legitimate chargebacks exist, but fraudulent ones are when the card issuer reverses the amount charged by a merchant … back onto the merchant. This permits a thief to continue using a card while still retaining the purchased items. It creates a kind of bottomless well of credit because the credit limit never gets reached. The merchant often gets hit with big fees and is also out of the item sent.
Child identity theft — When a child’s information, especially Social Security number, is stolen and credit accounts are set up in their name. This is a great reason to pull your child’s credit report at least once a year.
Cloning – Using stolen credit card data, often from skimming (see below), to create a fake credit card. The data is often encoded onto a magnetic strip of the fake card.
Credit card fraud — A catch-all term for when your credit card is used without your authorization, or when it is used by yourself or others and neither pays the bill. That’s right – if you use the card and have no intention to pay the bill, you are committing fraud.
Dumpster diving — Sorting through someone’s garbage with the hope of finding personal information that can be used to commit fraud against that person.
EMV – A new security feature for credit cards which requires a microchip and PIN number on a card to make a charge.
Familiar fraud — This is essentially impersonation, when someone you know pretends to be you in order to get your personal information.
Fraud – This is the general term that encompasses any attempt, using some form of misrepresentation, to steal assets of another party. There are both federal and state definitions as to what specifically constitutes fraud.
Fraud ring — A group of people who commit fraud.
Friendly fraud — When you charge something and deliberately engage a chargeback in order to keep the items you purchased without paying for them.
Identity theft — Using another person’s identify, especially a Social Security number, to obtain credit or steal assets.
Medical fraud — Stealing someone’s personal information to obtain medical care. It can sometimes be used to bill private insurance or Medicare and then get reimbursed for services that may or may not have been provided.
Pharming — To redirect people from a legitimate website to a fake website made to look like the real one.
Phishing — Usually done via an email that appears to come from a legitimate source, it’s actually an attempt to get you to provide personal information to a phony source. The thieves then use that information, often usernames and passwords, to commit fraud. These solicitations have many tell-tale signs, of which typos and poor grammar are the most common.
Shoulder surfing — When someone looks over your shoulder when you’re in the process of entering a PIN. This is just one reason why ATMs have wide-angle mirrors.
Skimming — A popular method of stealing credit card and other information. A skimmer is a small device that acts, and even looks like, a legitimate credit card scanner. It can be placed onto gas pumps or in ATM slots. It can be hidden behind counters at restaurants. You think you are engaging in a legitimate transaction, but the skimmer collects the data from your magnetic strip.
Smishing — The same as phishing, but the scam message comes via cell phone text message. You are asked to call a toll-free number, and led through an automated voice-response protocol, just like when you call your credit card company. You get asked to enter your credit card number, your CCV, and ZIP code.
Sniffing — Intercepting Internet traffic passing through a computer network. It’s a bit like eavesdropping on data passing through the network and grabbing up data that can be used for fraud.
Social Security fraud — When your Social Security Number is used so a thief can get your personal information. The key element in identity theft.
Synthetic fraud — Combining fake and real information about a person, in an attempt to create a whole new identity under which new credit accounts can be opened.
Vishing — Just like phishing, but a thief tries to steal personal information by installing software on your computer via video file.
» MORE: How to Dispute Fraudulent Credit Card Charges
Glossary image via Shutterstock
NerdWallet Compare, Inc. NMLS ID# 1617539
NMLS Consumer AccessLicenses and Disclosures
Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion® directly.
It looks like nothing was found at this location. Maybe try a search?
Anschrift
Hintergasse 38
35423 Lich
Tel.: 06404 / 622 70
Mobil: 0160 / 944 15 370
Öffnungszeiten
Mo: Ruhetag (geschlossen)
Di-Fr: 14:00 – 18:00 Uhr
Sa: 09:00 – 13:00 Uhr
zusätzlich nach
tel. Vereinbarung

AGB
					·
					Impressum
					·
					Versand
					·
					Über Uns
					·
					Kontakt

Kostümverleih Wundertüte © 2001
Hintergasse 3835423 Lich
Mobil: 0160 / 944 15 370Tel.: 06404 / 622 70
info@kostuemverleih-wundertuete.de

Social Media
					Besuche die Wundertüte auf Facebook oder Instagram, um immer alles über die neusten Aktionen und trendigsten Kostüme zu erfahren!
				
You don't have permission to access /singapore/courts-crime/man-posts-intellectually-disabled-womans-topless-photo-online-with-insulting
on this server.

Liberté, égalité, fraternité, culture, partage !
Accéder au contenu
Messagepar Mr peG » lun. 09 févr. 2015, 02:10 
Messagepar Mr peG » lun. 09 févr. 2015, 02:47 
Messagepar yadlajoie » lun. 09 févr. 2015, 10:47 
Messagepar IsaK » lun. 09 févr. 2015, 12:03 
Messagepar Mr peG » mar. 10 févr. 2015, 03:49 
Messagepar yadlajoie » mar. 10 févr. 2015, 11:49 
Messagepar Mr peG » mar. 10 févr. 2015, 13:15 
Messagepar Individu » mer. 11 févr. 2015, 18:24 
Messagepar Mr peG » mer. 11 févr. 2015, 22:15 
Messagepar Mr peG » mer. 11 févr. 2015, 22:20 
Messagepar Zidjinn » dim. 15 févr. 2015, 03:19 
Messagepar Mr peG » dim. 15 févr. 2015, 03:26 
Messagepar Zidjinn » dim. 15 févr. 2015, 03:31 
Revenir vers « Présentation des membres »
Utilisateurs parcourant ce forum : Aucun utilisateur inscrit et 3 invités








Skip navigation
What is in Crimea they don’t want us to see amoung the retired, and retiredeezzs. Send me a tartar and some fish from the sea.. florida for bulshevacs, and you or western bound. three wars your attractions bound, four ,five, disciplining your irony freedom and legacy, corporate diversion and povertys sodemy for being. your fault you didnt attend, starched shirts and “treadmaster” arms, legs, thieghs achieved in pill pusher rooms, whiles sweat greets the warming sky. Only, labor and free air.. trying to kill the midle class expanding all to average wage.. average against the Chinese, the top hears only we can send globally our children to die, only we can balence an economic status but we is a media representation. on the streets children walk in bad clothes and stressed faces, addicted un consciouly, streamed into a salmons run to sex and family. to a larger fantasy as balence we cry .. americna avearge, bought and financed brainwahing and romanced independant of humaniity, Rusia worked this all out before hand, they told the major powers, I know because the pope cam out with some big ones,, (statement to the press t capture media) the Plane is still missing ( to capture the media) , Rockets Into Isrealia (from who wasnt announced as i heard it) The stock market eases up..
SAll because Ukraine changes banks.. but really ,, the oldest plow in the bood is ,, my enemy enemy is my frriend,, and it isnt being acted all that well.. but imagine a party ,, saying to another party if i cause war with you everyone will come to help you.. never mind my gas pipelines are there.. and we have been wanting to expand the secondary route but no money there.. and the enviromental restrictions.. damn ,, all that will change , you call yourself a new government like russia did,, (Hail Urkrane) and all dbts will be forgiven,, and you start a new,, spring chicken.. mean while everyone is investing and money is streaming in , everyone wins an no one looses,, in fact we willl play with a new part of russia which never left,, lol nice.. play chess more often. lol this is as good as the time magazine cover of Oswald,, and time magazine was create by the Dostovsky brothers 1861. thank you this has been a patties day rant thank you for listening ,,, oh wait reading..

                                    Avec les favoris, retrouvez dans un espace les sélections effectuées au fur et à mesure de vos navigations dans le site.
                                

                                    Constituez pour votre usage personnel vos listes de livres en prévisions d'achats futurs et votre sélection d'articles, dossiers, événements, vidéos ou podcasts préférés ou à découvrir plus tard...
                                

                                    Il suffit simplement de cliquer sur "Ajout Favori" sur chaque page qui vous intéresse pour les retrouver ensuite dans votre espace personnel.
                                


                                        Requiert un compte Mollat
                                    



                                        Requiert un compte Mollat
                                    

vps2.expire.mysrsx.net
Follow The Nib on Twitter | Like us on Facebook | subscribe to our mailing list
Big Data & Small Cartoons. Director & Co-Founder of Data-Pop Alliance. Visiting scholar at MIT Media Lab. Political Cartoonist.
Political cartoons, comics journalism, humor and non-fiction. Words plus pictures.
   Electronic Enclosure Products
   Home Theater
   Solar Panels
   Axial Fans
   2-Way Communications
   Antenna Accessories
   Audio Cables
   Black Widow Security Systems
   Car Stereo Kits
   Coaxial Connectors
   Fuses & Circuit Breakers
   Hardware
   Hardware Kits & Enclosures
   iPod® Accessories
   Lighter Plugs & Pin Connectors
   Lojack Kits & Replacement Parts
   Mobile Solutions
   Mobile Video Products
   Noise Filters & Converters
   Power Supplies & More
   ProLink® Audio Products
   Signal® Mirrors
   Sound Control Technology
   Speakers & Accessories
   Surveillance
   Switches
   Terminal & Barrier Strips
   Test Equipment
   Tools & Service Chemicals
   Vehicle Safety
   Wire & Wiring Accessories
   ** Product Closeouts **
Posted by Web Staff - email l twitter l facebook
STOW, OH (WOIO) - Stow Police are on the hunt for a bank robbery suspect.
The heist happened Wednesday morning at the Huntington Bank on Darrow Road.
The suspect walked up to a teller and presented a handwritten note demanding money. He then told her to "Give me all the money." The teller gave him an undisclosed amount of money and he immediately exited the bank and fled north of the bank on foot.
No weapon was seen but a small to medium size white car was seen in the area at the time and possibly is involved.
The suspect is described as a black male in his late 20's/early 30's, 5'10", 185lbs, dark complexion, sunglasses, no facial hair, clean cut, short hair, wearing white open collared dress shirt, than corduroy blazer, blue jeans, blue ball cap, no tattoos or marks on skin.
The Stow Police Department requests anyone who has knowledge of the identity of this person or details about the crime to contact the department at 330.689.5700.
©2009 WOIO. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
 1717 E. 12th StreetCleveland, OH 44114(216) 771-1943 
Police in New York say they have a suspect in custody after a startling attack left one woman dead and another seriously injured at a Brooklyn apartment last week. As CrimeOnline previously reported, an injured woman told an Uber driver …
A Missouri woman who admitted fatally shooting her husband—a Ku Klux Klan imperial wizard—and dumping his body in a river was sentenced Friday to life in prison for the February 2017 slaying. According to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Malissa Ancona, 46, …
Authorities in California say a woman was caught on video dumping a bag of newborn puppies near a dumpster outside of a business last in Coachella week. According to a Facebook post from the Riverside County Animal Services, the incident …
An Arizona woman accused of sending her date over 150,000 text messages while threatening to turn his kidneys into sushi, says she is not guilty and thinks it’s “ridiculous” she’s behind bars. “I just think it’s ridiculous. I can’t believe that …
George Zimmerman, the Florida man who killed Trayvon Martin in 2012, has been banned from multiple dating apps, ABC News reports. Tinder has removed Zimmerman’s profile because of safety reasons, according to a statement from the company. “We take the …
A vehicle tied to a missing California teen and two murder suspects has been found near the Mexican border, KABC-TV reports. Authorities searching for 15-year-old Alora Benitez located a vehicle on Friday in San Ysidro, a border town south of …
Authorities in Nevada say a man’s attempt to stop a drunk driver from leaving a parking lot nearly ended in tragedy. According to KOLO, 22-year-old Orlando Hidalgo-Martinez was leaving a strip club in Reno early Thursday morning when he attempted …
Authorities in Georgia say a homeowner resorted to arson when faced with a foreclosure against the spacious estate. According to the New York Post, 68-year-old Stanley Edward Stephens was arrested along with his alleged accomplice after the nearly 6,000-square-foot Silver …
Authorities in Pennsylvania say four individuals are facing criminal charges related to the stabbing death of the grandfather of one suspect. According to Fox News, police say three suspects — including the victim’s granddaughter — had been arrested as of …
Authorities in New York City are on the hunt for a suspect after a woman was brutally stabbed to death and another woman seriously injured in an attack that played out with a young child in the home. According to …
Authorities in Florida say two middle-school students were arrested on suspicion of plotting a mass kidnapping and murder. According to ABC News, a teacher allegedly spotted the two 14-year-old girls become “hysterical” as they looked for a folder in class …
The mother of missing Andrew “A.J.” Freund, a 5-year-old Illinois boy who reportedly disappeared from his home Wednesday night after his parents put him to bed, hired a lawyer and left her home to stay with a friend, amid investigations …
New details have emerged in the colossal divorce between Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and his soon-to-be ex-wife, Mackenzie Bezos, the DailyMail reports. According to recently obtained court filings, Mackenzie Bezos could get at least $1 billion more than was initially …
A small Wisconsin community is in shock after two children and a man were found dead inside a home on Friday, WTMJ-TV reports. Police responded to a call about a domestic disturbance at a house late Thursday night in Seymour, …
The young boy who survived the fall from a third-story balcony at a Minnesota mall earlier this month is “showing real signs of recovery,” according to his family. As CrimeOnline previously reported, 5-year-old Landen Hoffman was thrown from the ledge …
Authorities in Montana say a man has been arrested on suspicion of killing his girlfriend last year. According to NBC News, an affidavit cites surveillance camera footage that appears to show Gregg Green “carrying a very heavy object, ‘cradle style’ …
South Carolina officials announced Friday that criminal charges won’t be filed in last month’s death of a 10-year-old girl who reportedly died after a fight at her middle school, revealing the fifth-grader died as a result of an undiagnosed medical …
As 5-year-old Illinois boy Andrew “A.J” Freund remains missing, police obtained a search warrant and raided the family’s Crystal Lake home on Friday, where the child was last seen two days ago. Chicago Tribune reports that around seven vehicles pulled …
Authorities in Texas say a 69-year-old woman was arrested after she was treated for injuries they say were self-inflicted burns. According to KTRK, Houston police dispatched officers to the home of Janet Alexander on Friday morning in connection with her …
Police in Fort Worth, Texas, have released a letter that may contain a cryptic clue into the unsolved murder of a 17-year-old girl in 1974. According to the Dallas Morning News, Carla Walker was raped and brutally murdered in February …
Hours after a Missouri man was bailed out of jail by a non-profit agency on April 9, he crept over to his wife’s home and brutally attacked her, according to police. KMOV reports that on January 6, Samuel Lee Scott, 54, …
Authorities in Ohio announced Friday that the body of a 14-year-old boy who vanished last week was found buried in a shallow grave on a farm this morning. The Carroll County Sheriff’s Office said Jonathon Minard was found dead in …
The Klaas Kids Foundation’s mission is to stop crimes against children.
Trump values cheap oil more than human life.
Trump is willing to shield Saudi Arabia from any sort of punishment for murdering U.S. journalist Jamal Khashoggi because he likes having cheap oil.
In a bizarre White House statement, Trump all but absolves Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman of any wrongdoing around Khashoggi's murder.
A recent Washington Post report shows the CIA had concluded in a high-confidence assessment that the crown prince personally ordered the Khashoggi's murder.
In the White House statement, Trump blithely says, "maybe he did and maybe he didn't!"
To further muddy the water, Trump parrots the Saudi talking point that Khashoggi, who worked for the Washington Post, was labeled an "enemy of the people" by Saudi Arabia.
While the country brutally murdered and dismembered a U.S. journalist, Trump is willing to turn a blind eye because Saudi Arabia has "worked closely with us and have been very responsive to my requests to keeping oil prices at reasonable levels."
The price of committing murder is apparently keeping oil prices below $60 per barrel.
Trump's shilling for an allegedly murderous prince is appalling, but sadly not surprising.
After the murder, which took place in Saudi Arabia's consulate in Turkey, Trump rushed to defend Saudi Arabia from accusations. In fact, he compared the situation to accused attempted rapist Brett Kavanaugh, Trump's nominee to the Supreme Court.
Defending murder is not a big leap from defending attempted rape, and Trump is showing the world that he will do both.
Trump isn't acting alone, either. According to recent news reports, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is working with Saudi Arabia to help cover up the murder, working with the regime on damage control measures.
One of Trump's first acts after being sworn in was an attempt to ban Muslims from the United States. In the years since then, Trump has repeatedly called the free press "the enemy of the people."
Now that a Muslim U.S. journalist has been brutally murdered, Trump is helping to cover it up, just as long as the country can maintain access to cheap oil.
The oil may be cheap. But for Trump, so is human life.
Published with permission of The American Independent.
News > Simone Nadelhofer appointed to the Expert Board of Economic Crime Investigation Masters Programme
LALIVE Partner and White Collar Crime specialist Dr Simone Nadelhofer has been appointed to the Expert Board of the Master of Advanced Studies in Economic Crime Investigation at Lucerne Business School. This appointment takes effect from the beginning of the 2016-2017 academic year.
The Expert Board is composed of academics, senior professionals from the public sector, including prosecutors, as well as other professionals in private practice.
The Master of Advanced Studies in Economic Crime has been taught for over twelve years, providing a focused programme covering Governance, Risk and Compliance, the full spectrum of Economic Crimes (including financial, commercial and cyber crime) and Forensics and Investigations.
Simone Nadelhofer has been chosen for her established practice in this area, currently one of the fastest growing areas in legal practice, as a result of stricter regulatory requirements and the growth of enforcement activity worldwide.
For further information on the Masters programme, please see the flyer, the presentation and the themes covered (available in German only).
For further information on the firm’s White Collar Crime practice, please see here.
GENEVA
ZURICH
LONDON
GENEVA
ZURICH
LONDON
©2018 - LALIVE - Developed with passion by the Communication Agency Habefast.
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.
Another way to prevent getting this page in the future is to use Privacy Pass. Check out the browser extension in the Firefox Add-ons Store.

Cloudflare Ray ID: 4a79030cea2c97f8
•
Your IP: 74.77.108.36
•
Performance & security by Cloudflare

Navy blue draped sari in crepe fabric with boat neckline
Woven/Knitted: Woven
Body Fabric: Crepe
Fit: Relaxed fit
Primary Color: Navy blue
Secondary Color: Multiple
Neck Type: Boat neckline
Care Instructions: Dry clean only
 12054 



women
saris



 12054 



women
saris



 15179 



women
dresses



 12054 



women
saris



© 2015-2019 The Secret Label
Tel : +33 (0) 9 54 24 04 19
contact@masolutionwp.com
69 Avenue de Bonneuil
94210 La Varenne Saint Hilaire
Qui sommes nous?
Nous contacter
Tel : +33 (0) 9 54 24 04 19
contact@masolutionwp.com
69 Avenue de Bonneuil
94210 La Varenne Saint Hilaire
Qui sommes nous?
Nous contacter
Nous ne sommes pas présents pour l'instant mais vous pouvez nous envoyer un email, nous reviendrons vers vous au plus vite.
Bonjour, coment puis-je vous aider?
From: MUSTAPHA GAMBO <m_gambo\\onebox.com
                  Sent: Monday, June 25, 2001 5:06 AM Subject: GOLD CONFIDENTIAL
                  BUSINESS MESSAGE FROM: PRINCE KUFOUR OTUMFUO FAX: 00233-21-401252  ATTN:
                  Ebrahim  Dear Sir,  I am Prince Kufour Otumfuo
                    the elder son of the late King Otumfuo Opoku ware II whose
                  demise occur following a brief illness. Before the death of my
                  father, King Otumfuo Opoku ware II, I was authorised and
                  officially known as the next successor and beneficiary
                    of my father's property according to African Traditional rite.
Most of my father's wealth includes Gold and Diamond worth the
                    following qualities.
(1) 99kg alluvial gold dust Best
                    quality GEM/Servce 100
(2) 22 karat Quantity
                    3000 S.A
(3) 9.0 purity Colour
                    : Brown (unpolished) Size: 3/8 carats
As a result of polygamous family, there has been a dead
                    luck over the issue of division of my father's property
                    between members of my family and community as a whole. In conjunction
                    with this, the thrown which is only left to me as the eldest
                    man in the family is been battled by the member of the twenty
                    one hamlet that made up of Ashanti kingdom.
This ugly situation made me to secretly move the gold
                    dust having the above mentioned qualities into a security
                      and finance firm with the assistance of my uncle whom
                    serves as a secretary to Ashanti council of elders.
If you are interested to buy it just contact me or just look for
                    a buyer for me.
I have promise to run the deal with you, base in the degree of
                    sincerity and trust in you. Having receive your reply, I will feed
                    you with the relevant information covering the consignment.
Note, I and my mother hoped heavily on this transaction. Please
                    reach me through my e-mail address m_gambo\\onebox.com to avoid
                    much publicity.
Thanks. Yours faithfully,
PRINCE KUFOUR OTUMFUO
From: david koffi <koffi_d\\onebox.com Sent: Thursday, June
                    21, 2001 6:17 PM Subject: LOGISTIC ASSISTANCE ATTENTION, Ebrahim  Your
                      esteem address was received through a valued friend in my neighborhood
                      who told me to contact you in handling this business. I
                        am PRINCE D.KOFFI OPOKUWARE the eldest son of the late KING OPOKUWARE
                        of Ashanti Kingdom whose demise occurred following a brief illness.
Before his death, I was authorized and officially known as the
                    next successor and beneficiary of my father's property
                      according to African Traditional Rite. Most of my
                    father's wealth include AU Metal Gold/ Dust worth
                    the following quantity and qualities:-
1. Product : AU Metal (Gold) 350 kg 2. Origin : Ghana West Africa
                    3. Type : Alluvial 4. Purity : 22.5 Carat or 95%  As
                      a result of polygamous family, there has been a dead lock
                    over the issue of division of my father's property between members
                    of my family and community as a whole. In conjunction with this, the
                      throne which is only left for me as the eldest man in
                    the family is being battled by the members of the twenty-one
                      hamlet that made up of Ashanti Kingdom.
This ugly situation made me to secretly move the AU Metal Gold/
                    Dust having the above mentioned qualities into a Security and Finance
                    House as family treasure and valuable with the assistance of my
                    uncle who serves as a Secretary to Ashanti Council of Elders.
Now, the instability of government of the third-world
                    nations, and political crisis which has been the order of the
                    day in West African States. I urgently seek for your
                    assistance for immediate shipment of this consignment out from
                    the Security and Finance House into your country for urgent marketing
                    and Joint Partnership Business.
I have promise to run this deal with you, base in the degree of
                    sincerity and trust found in you. Having receive your reply. I
                    will feed you with the relevant information covering the consignment.
Please reach me through my Telephone number 00233 - 27 - 533377
                    or E-mail: koffi_d\\onebox.com  Looking forward to hear from
                    you soonest.
Yours faithfully, KOFFI D. OPOKUWARE  NB: please comfirm
                    the recipt of message immediately. call me, good bye.
From wilimadu\\yahoo.com Thu Jun 7 2001 From: wiliam
                    madu <wilimadu\\yahoo.com Hello  I am WILLIAM MADU the
                      only son of PETER MADU who died in a motor accident some
                    months ago he was  a contractor to federal government of
                      Nigeria. Before he gives up in the hospital he told my
                    mother and I that he  deposited sum of US $ 9.5
                    million  with a security company and where the
                    document is. But he did not let them know that the content is money.
Since after my father's death my uncles bringing troubling my
                    mother with their useless traditional there have taking all of
                    my father's belongings/properties and left us with nothing just
                    because, my mother is not from Nigeria. As a result of this problem
                    my mother feel into an illness. Now she is seriously sick and I
                    have spent all the money we have on drugs and hospital bill.
We have nothing to do than to look for a way to claim the consignment
                    (money) form the security company. We have contacted them and them
                    said  before the consignment will be released to us that
                      we are going to pay for the demurrage. Now we are looking
                    for some one who will assist us and claim the consignment (money)
                    so that when it arrived to his home/ country he will take his own
                    share and send us our own. I am writing this mail to see if you
                    can assist us.
Upon receipt of your acknowledgment mail I shall send you the
                    contact of the security company as well as our telephone number.
Thanks
WILLIAM MADU
Hope to hear from you soon.
Teresa Nielsen Hayden sends along her editorial views on the letter
                    she received above.
I'm fairly sure the authors of the best of these Nigerian scam
                    letters have a much better grasp of English than you'd guess from
                    a quick read. The text is studded with quaint errors, but they're
                    small, self-contained mistakes, and they're all on the surface,
                    so it's easy to read past them. And when you do read past them,
                    you can always tell what's going on.
This makes me suspicious, because it's not the normal failure
                    mode. English has loose, minimal grammar and syntax. When English
                    goes bad it tends to lose internal structures of meaning, and to
                    muddle sequences, hierarchies, and relationships, until you literally
                    can't tell what's going on. But the better sort of Nigerian scam
                    letters don't muddle the parts that matter. They want you to understand
                    what they're getting at.
I believe the surface errors are there for two reasons. One is
                    to make native English-speakers feel a bit superior and self-assured,
                    and disguise the fact that the people they're dealing with are
                    smart, predatory con artists. The other is to put the reader in
                    a more receptive frame of mind. If your attention is being taken
                    up by the foreground language, you won't be giving the underlying
                    story anything like your normal level of critical scrutiny.
Consider the specimen above. Notice that all the important passages
                    are in standard English. For instance, its language goes wrong
                    when describing the mother's problems with the uncles -- which
                    isn't a drawback; we only need to know that there have been problems
                    -- but it pops back into the clear when it gets to the point: "I
                    have spent all the money we have."
   Likewise, it isn't important
                    that we know exactly why the security company needs money before
                    it'll release the deposit, so they use the wonderfully recondite "demurrage" (which
                    would be a characteristic error of non-native English speakers
                    who've tried to translate a technical term and run afoul of our
                    vast store of weird old synonyms); but the point -- front a little
                    money, earn a share of a great deal of money -- is never in doubt.
That kind of clarity doesn't happen by chance. Some of the authors
                    of these letters are too clever by half.
From: Mr. LUCAS sankoh <lucassankoh\\yahoo.fr Subject: INVESTMENT
                    PROPOSAL MR. WILLIAMS SANKOH TEL:(225) 05 89 46 61 FAX:(225) 21
                    58 10 05 or 21 58 18 26 Abidjan (COTE D'IVOIRE) DATE: 23/07/2001  STRICKLY
                    CONFIDENCIAL  ATTN: DIRECTOR  SIR,  IT IS A PLEASURE
                    TO INTRODUCE TO YOU A BUSINESS THAT WILL MAKE THE BEGINNING
                      OF NEVER-ENDING FAMILY RELATIONSHIP, I GOT YOUR CONTACT
                    THROUGH CHAMBER'S OF COMMERCE AND I HOPE THAT THIS PROPOSAL WILL
                    NOT BE AN INCONVENIENCE OR EMBARRASSMENT TO YOU. I MUST NOT HESITATE
                    TO CONFIDE IN YOU THIS SIMPLE AND SINCERE BUSINESS.
I AM MR WILLIAMS SANKOH THE FIRST SON OF THE LATE AGOGOMAKA
                    SANKOH WHO WAS A FAMOUS COCOA MERCHANT. I AM 23
                    YEARS OLD AND A SIERRA-LEONIAN.
MY LATE FATHER OPERATED HIS COCOA BUSINESS IN ABIDJAN-COTE
                    D'IVOIRE UNDER PARTNERSHIP BUT UNFORTUNATELY HIS
                      BUSINESS ASSOCIATES POISONED HIM IN ORDER TO CLAIM HIS
                    WEALTH IN A COCKTAIL PARTY HELD IN HIS HONOUR AS THE DIRECTOR
                    OF THE COMPANY. WHEN HE WAS POISONED, HE WAS RUSHED TO THE HOSPITAL.
IT WAS IN THE HOSPITAL THAT HE SECRETLY DISCLOSED TO ME THE
                    CAUSE OF THE SICKNESS AND ALSO THAT HE DEPOSITED THE
                    SUM OF $22. M(TWENTY TWO MILLION DOLLARS) WITH AN INTERNATIONAL
                      BANK HERE IN ABIDJAN-COTE D'IVOIRE AND THAT I WAS
                    MADE THE NEXT OF KIN TO INHERIT THIS SUM IN HIS RECORD/FILE.
HE THEREFORE ADVISED ME TO LOOK FOR A RELIABLE, TRUST
                    WORTHY AND GOD-FEARING PERSON WHO WILL ASSIST ME TO TRANSFER
                      THIS FUNDS ABROAD STRICTLY FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES.
                    THIS IS BECAUSE HE DIDN'T WANT HIS ASSOCIATES TO RAISE
                      AN EYEBROW ON HIS FUND. HE ALSO ADVISED ME TO AVOID
                    HIS ASSOCIATES WHO WILL BE RUNNING AFTER MY DEAR LIFE. HE FINALLY
                    DIED IN THE HOSPITAL AFTER TWO DAYS OF ADMISSION.
I AM SOLICITING FOR YOUR ASSISTANCE TO TRANSFER THIS FUNDS FOR
                    AN INVESTMENT PURPOSES. I HOPE TO TRAVEL WITH YOU TO YOUR
                      COUNTRY AFTER A SUCCESSFUL TRANSFER OF THIS FUNDS.
THE CONTACT OF THE BANK WILL BE GIVEN TO YOU AS SOON AS YOU SHOW
                    YOUR INTEREST AND WILLINGNESS TO ME. YOU CAN NOW INSTRUCT THEM
                    ON WHERE AND HOW THIS FUNDS WILL BE TRANSFERRED.
I AM OFFERING YOU 15% OF THE TOTAL SUM OF $22.000.000 AS COMMISSION
                    FOR YOUR ASSISTANCE TO TRANSFER THIS FUND. MAY I STRONGLY RE-EMPHASIZE
                    THAT THIS TRANSACTION IS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL, HITCH FREE AND THIS
                    WILL BE SUCCESSFULLY CONCLUDED WITHIN 10 DAYS.
THANKS FOR YOUR ANTICIPATED CO-OPERATION. PLEASE CALL ME ON MY
                    DIRECT LINE:(225) 05 89 46 61 FOR MORE CLARIFICATION
BEST REGARDS.
WILLIAMS SANKOH.
Kelvin Emmanuel Plot 277 Mohtala mohammed way Ikeja Lagos.
RE: INVESTMENT PROPOSAL
INTRODUCTION:  l am Kelvin Emmanuel, a Civil servant.
                    l know this proposal will come to you as a surprise because we
                    have not met before either physically or through correspondence.
                    I have no doubt in your ability to handle this proposal involving
                    huge sum of money.
THE SUBJECT: My father ALHAJI Clifford Emmanuel (Now Late) was
                    the Royal Head of my community, ELEME (an oil rich town) in Nigeria.
                    My community produces 5.8% of the total crude oil production in
                    Nigeria and 0.5%of the Dollar value of each barrel is paid
                    to my father as royalty by the Federal Government.
My father was also the Chairman of ELEME Special Oil Trust
                    Fund. In his position as the Royal head and Chairman of the Oil
                    Trust Fund, he made some money which he left for me as the only
                    heir to inherit. The money is Ten Million Five Hundred
                    Thousand US Dollars($10.5m).
This Money originated from the accumulated between 1976-1998.
                    Due to poor banking system in Nigeria and political instability
                    as a result of past Military rules (1985-1999) , he deposited this
                    Money  in a Strong Room / "VAULTS" with an open
                      beneficiary in Apex Bank of Nigeria pending when he would
                    finish  arrangement to transfer it abroad as a CONTRACT
                      PAYMENT. He was planning this when he died late
                    last year of Heart Attack.
THE PROPOSAL: Just before my father died he called my attention
                    to the money and charged me to look for a foreigner who would assist
                    me in the transfer/investment of the funds abroad. So l would be
                    very grateful if you could accept to help me achieve this great
                    objective.
I promise to give you 20% of the total funds transferred to your
                    vital bank account as compensation for your assistance. Five percent
                    (5%)would be set aside to take care of all expenses we may incur
                    during the transaction.
To indicate your interest, contact me urgently and confidentially
                    for more information and the roles you will play in this business.
                    All the legal Documents concerning this Money will be sent
                    to you as soon as we agreed together. Send your reply through this
                    box.
May the almighty God bless you Les Henderson.
Yours faithfully,
Kelvin Emmanuel
This one identical to one above, but for the names.
From: john ikw <joike\\cannabismail.com Sent: July 06, 2001  INTRODUCTION: l
                    am John Ike a Civil Servant...
THE SUBJECT: My father Mike Ike (Now Late) was the Royal
                    Head of my community, ELEME (an oil rich town) in Nigeria...  For
                      security reasons, I will want you to contact me via
                    my my private email box #: ike\\mail.flashmail.com, this
                    is for security reasons since we need top secret.  May
                    the almighty God bless you.  Yours faithfully  John
                    Ike.
Richard N. Eisen, MD sends this example along July 14, 2001
Subject: Greetings.
Dear Sir,
Kindly accept my apology for spamming you. Although we never met
                    before, I have every reason to believe that you are a highly respected
                    personality, considering the fact that I sourced your profile
                      from a human resource profile database on your country.
My names are Mr. Gregory Smart Ndaba. I hail from Luanda
                    in Angola. Currently, I am staying in Accra, Ghana
                    while making conceited efforts to travel out of Ghana as soon
                    as possible.
My father left some money for me in Ghana, before he died. If
                    you may ask why do I need a foreign assistance or why can't I take
                    the cash myself and transfer? The answer is that there
                      was an exclusion clause in the original agreement between the company
                      and my father which states unambiguously that 'nobody, not even
                      himself, can have access to the consignment in Ghana, and it has
                      to be transferred to a foreign beneficiary outside Africa'.
This was done because he envisaged his arrest and this clause was
                    inserted to prevent any seizure or infiltration of the fund.
My decision to contact you is therefore, informed by this. I believe
                    you will appreciate the enormity of trust I repose on you by placing
                    the fortunes of my family in your care.
Permit me to request that you should reassure me that you will
                    not let me down in any way. On my part, this is my assurance and
                    guarantee to you. In as much as you follow my instructions
                      carefully, religiously and promptly my guarantee of a hitch-free
                      success remains unshakable.
The amount involved is US$25.6 Million, which my father made from
                    the purchase of ammunitions for the Angolan Army in 1996.
I will give you twenty five percent of the total sum, while ten
                    percent will be used for incidental expenditures. Please
                      Note: I can only refund your expenditures after we have completed
                      the transaction.
Kindly confirm in your reply if you can come over to Ghana
                    to enable us conclude this transaction. Kindly include
                    your telephone and fax numbers, to enable me send some other
                    important information across to you.
My proposal is highly restricted and should be handled as an urgent
                    transaction requiring trust and confidentiality.
Send all replies to me using this E-mail address; gregnda\\qrio.com
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Gregory Ndaba.
ALIMARH RAHBIU wrote:
FROM NINA MAWA.SORDJE
ABIDJAN -- COTE D IVORE DATE :20-07-2001 FAX :(00225)21-56-60-35
ATTN : SIR/MAD
I AM HUMBLY WRITING TO YOU FOR AN ASSISTANCE SINCE WE CAN NOT SEE EARCH
                OTHER FACE TO FACE; FOR THE FACT OF CONTACTING YOU WILL BE SUFFICIENT
                FOR ME BUT EXCUSE ME FOR CONFIDING IN YOU HENCE THE ASSURANCES ON YOUR RESPONSIBILITY.
I SHALL BE DELIGHTED IF YOU COULD GRANT ME AN ASSISTANCE. IN BRIEF I
                AM THE ONLY DOUGHTER OF LATE MR LUC . N GOMO SORDJE. I AM
                AN IVOREINE CITIZEN AND I AM 21 YEARS OF AGE. I INHERITED
                THE SUM OF ($13.5 MILLION US DOLLARS FOR TRANSFER; FOR FROEIGN INVESTMENTS
                BUT THE FUND WAS LODGED IN A FINANCIAL INSTITUTION IN LOME TOGO WEST
                AFRICA.
BEFORE MY FATHER WAS KILLED HE MADE IT KNOWN TO ME AND MY MOTHER ; SINCE
                  THEN I AM COMTERPLATING AND AFRED OF WHOM I WILL BE INVOLVE IN ; AS MY
                  BUSINESS PARTINER LIKE WHAT IS HAPPNIBNG IN THE WORLD TODAY WHERE I READ
                  IT OVER THE NEWSPAPERS AND MAGAZINES IS THAT BUSINESS IS GOOD WITH CONNECTIONS
                  ; BUT NOW I HAVE MADE UP MY MIND TO CHOOSE YOU AS MY BUSINESS PARTINER.
  PLEASE KINDLY ASSIST ME ON THE TRANSFER OF THIS FUND INTO YOUR OWN ACCOUNT
                IN YOUR CONTRY FOR INVESTMENTS OR IN THE AREAS OF YOUR   SPECILISATION
                AND A LETTER OF INVITATION THAT MIGHT ENABLE ME TO ARRANG MY TRAVLLING
                DOCUMENTS TO JOIN YOU AS SOON AS THE TRANSFER IS MADE.
I WILL BE TOO GREATFULL IF IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE FOR
                  YOU TO GIVE ME AN ASSISTANCE IN YOUR CONTRY OR AN INTRODUTION
                  THAT ENABLE ME TO GET AN ASSISTANCE ELSE WHERE.
I HAVE SET ASIDE 5 PERCENTS OUT OF THE TOTAL FUND FOR
                              ANY EXPENSES THAT MIGHT BE INCURRED AND YOUR EFFORT IN
                              ASSISTING ME SHOULD BE COMMISSIONED ON THE PERCENTAGE
                            WE SHOULD AGRRED ON.
UPON RECIPT OF YOUR FAVOUR I SHALL WHIT OUT DELAY FUNISH
                              YOU MY TERMS AND RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHICH YOU WILL
                              NEED ;I HOPE THIS MY LETTER WILL NOT BE IGNORD. THANKS
                              FOR YOUR CO-OPERATION AND UNDERSTANDING I WAIT TO HEAR
                            FROM YOU AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
THANKS AND GOD BLESS.
YOURS EVER
NINA M. SORDJE
Sent in by Elaine Gould Oct 20/01
nicholas nzurike <nicholasnzurike\\yahoo.com
FROM : NICHOLAS NZURIKE TEL : 225-07-00-58-46
                            SUBJECT : BUSINESS ASSISTANCE ABIDJAN - COTE D'IVOIRE
REQUEST FOR AN ASSISTANCE
It is my pleasure to write you after much consideration
                              since telephone communication can not be suitable enough
                            to communicate to you at first.
Being the only  son of my father, late Mr. ALPHONSIUS
                              NZURIKE from KWATA-NATAL ZULU inRepublic of South
                              Africa (SA) I am 27 years of age.
My father was a limited liability of Cocoa and Gold
                              merchant in JOHANNESBURG, South Africa before his untimely
                              death. After his business trip to Abidjan - Cote d'Ivoire,
                              to negotiate on a cocoa and gold business he wanted
                            to invest in Abidjan - Cote d'Ivoire.
A week after he came back from Abidjan,  he
                              was attacked with my mother by unknown assassins.
                              My mother died instantly but my father died after five
                              days in a private hospital on that faithful afternoon.
                              I didn't know that my father was going to leave me
                              after I had lost my mother.
But  before he gave up the ghost, it
                              was as if he knew he was going to die. He my father,  MAY
                                HIS SOUL REST IN PERFECT PEACE he disclosed to me that
                              he deposited the sum of $ 28,000,000,00 US Dollars
                              (TWENTY EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS) in  a security
                            company here in Abidjan-Cote d'Ivoire.
That the money was meant for his cocoa and Gold company
                              he wanted to establish in Abidjan - Cote d'Ivoire though,
                              according to my fatherhe deposited the
                                money in trunk box but declared it as vital
                            family belongings.
He single handed me the key of the box and the  deposit
                              certificate and instructed me to seek for
                              a reliable and trust worthy business partner for my
                              lifetime investment abroad.
Now I have succeeded in locating the security
                              company here in Abidjan - Cote d'ivoire and also confirmed
                              the items with most honest and confidentiality. Now I
                              am soliciting for your assistance to help me lift this
                              money out from Abidjan to your safe account abroad so
                              that we should invest it in any meaningful lucrative
                              business in your country because this is my only
                            hope in life.
Awaiting anxiously to hear from you so that we can  discuss
                              the modalities of this transaction. Please
                              kindly contact me through the above telephone number
                              immediately for more discussion. Thanks for your kind
                              attention.
Yours sincerely
Mr. NICHOLAS NZURIKE
Les,
Thank you, thank you, thank you!!!!
I "almost" became a victim of scam that you
                              cover on your website. In fact, I almost bought airline
                            tickets to London.
I guess I fit the profile that these criminals seek.
                              I am in my mid 30's, consider myself somewhat intelligent
                            and am usually a very cautious person.
  Samuel Davies (44-779-675-3613 fax: 44-709-201-4658) provided
                me with a telephone number to Global Security and Financial
                Services in London. (44-207-518-0357 fax number 44-776-508-9005).
                Sure enough, when I called it a lady answered the phone     "Global
                Security, how may I help you?" The "director" of
                Global Security Financial Company, Richard Cartwright,
                wanted to know if I had my passport yet.
The only reason I did not get scammed by these people
                  is because I decided to call a local International
                  Law Attorney to get his advice on the authenticity
                  of my proposed $1.58 million dollar "gift" for
                  becoming the beneficiary and manager of an estate.
                  Until I contacted the attorney - I was convinced this
                  was all real.
I went as far as to research attorney Samuel Davies
                                in the UK, and found one which made things seem even
                                more real. Check out www.solicitors-online.com. The
                                real Samuel Davies appears to work with wills and properties.
                              How scary is that?
Your website provided me with a great understanding
                                to why and how these people work. Their approach this
                                time was to invest the "proceeds" in the
                              Sport-fishing Industry.
I commend you for what your are doing. I truly hope
                                that innocent people reach your website before disclosing
                                any account numbers or booking any flights with the
                                thought of claiming millions of dollars. Reading the
                                stories on your website made me feel a little better
                                because I am not alone. Although I did not lose any
                                money I still feel victimized and betrayed but I learned
                              a VALUABLE lesson.
Take care, Rodney Duke Raleigh, NC 11/15/01
Here is the original email. --
FROM: MR SAMUEL DAVIES CROWN LAW. UK Cauxhall
                              Drive West-London Nw116bl
I regret this informal way of contacting you which
                                I believe would be most effective with regards to the
                                Message I intend to bring to your notice. It is imperative
                                that  I adopt this means of communication to  safeguard
                              my interest and guarantee that secrecy is not compromised.
In my capacity as a legal practitioner and after putting
                                several years into private practice which involves
                                handling of numerous clients in the United Kingdom.
                                Over that period, events of the past six months forms
                                the nucleus of revelation which will be made to you
                              .
A gentle Man whom I  prefer we adopt an alias
                                of Sir John Riley for reasons of Anonymity,
                                of blessed memory (deceased). An Astute Business
                                man of international repute whose endeavors spans
                                various areas of Business interest,( Real estate,
                                stock brokerage, Farming .etc) and who I have several
                                various capacities as a Solicitor and an adviser
                                on business and personal issues  directed
                                me to prepare a will for him.
On further prompting from me to ascertain the necessity
                                of such an action, he confided in me of how he was
                                diagnosed by his personal Physician to have Cancer
                                and had a short period to live. This was about eight
                              (8) months ago.
With the  demise of my esteemed client and
                                friend I decided to  carry out with the instructions on
                                his will which clearly states that 50% of his possessions
                                which includes 75% of his Real Estate located at Highbury
                                should be given to his nephew who is the only living
                                next of kin, since my client was a divorcee of many
                              years though the relationship bore him no children.
Then 40% which includes 25% of his Real Estate  should
                                be invested in a viable commercial enterprise whose
                                annual dividends would be used to build a cancer
                                foundation and donations made to Research
                                on Cancer, 5% should be donated to various Charity
                                Organizations and 5% for myself for all my contributions.
All funds have been disbursed as stated in the will
                                excluding the 40% for investment and my 5%. The remaining
                                45% are in form of houses,cars,25% of his Real Estate
                                and the sum of Six Million eight Hundred thousand United
                                State Dollars ($6.8M) which is  currently deposited
                                  in security consignment boxes which are in a Financial
                              Trust Company located in London.
In view of this anticipated development I have decided
                                to  search for a trustworthy businessman or
                                woman who can  stand in as a manager of this
                                  funds for a two year period and also to  act
                                    as a Clearing beneficiary of the Security boxes in
                                    the Security Company after which I intend
                                to divert the money for our own private use when profits
                              have been made.
Immediately your interest is confirmed, you shall
                                be invited to London for us to further
                                our discussions, and clear the security boxes in the
                                Security clearing company as the beneficiary of the
                              boxes for us to commence Investments.
All arrangements have been made by me here to execute
                                a successful partnership together. I must remind you
                                of the confidentiality of this Transaction at hand
                                whatever your decision. While I await your Response.
                                Your detailed reply should contain your telephone and
                              fax numbers for easier communication .
All contacts should be made to this e-mail address:
                              samdave\\onebox.com
Best regards, Mr Sam Davies
Tony L Mega sent us this sad tale 11/20/01.
My name abdul gafah. I'm 24 yrs old
                                and a student. Please I would like you to assist me
                              as urgent as you can before they kill me.
My father is a wealthy cocoa merchant. Trouble began
                                early last yr when my father's associates began suspecting
                                that my father is not giving proper accounts of all
                                the tons of cocoa being cultivated by local farmers
                                in some villages... mistrust deepens... poisoned...
                              hospital bed... reveals..
deposited with a security company here in ABIDJAN...
                                relevant documents... help me to transfer this
                                money into your account for onward investment in your
                              country.
Prince Hassan Yaradua 234-1-7760743 or 234-8033204164
                                fax number 234-1-7592510 yaradua_yaradua\\yahoo.com
                              yaradua_hass\\yahoo.com
... son of Gen. Musa Yaradua former Chief of Army
                                Staff, Nigeria Army... ...seriously ill ... ... drew
                                my attention to his under ground safe in our family
                              house...
... diplomat with contacts in Ghana/Abidjan-Cote 'D'Ivoire
                                two West African Countries, Holland and other European
                                Countries who had promised to move the fund cash to
                                either of the countries through diplomatic immunity...
                                ...delivered by the security V.I.P Transport Company...
                              ...special beneficiary tag...
...fund US$38.5 million has been disguised with an
                              African black Solution for security reasons...
...the foreign beneficiary must have an African representative
                                as one of the security company's condition to work
                                for any foreigner, also the agent serves as identification
                                for claiming the baggages, in this sense, I stand as
                              your Nigerian Agent...
...5% of the fund would go to charity organization
                                like UNICEF and other Charity Home... ...actualization
                              of this objective...
... my password, which I must say, is SUCCESS...
Sent in by Bjoern Schaeffner of Switzerland 02/04/02
I got your contact through the the computer operator
                  at the refugee camp in my search for some one to assist
                  me. I am PRINCE WILL WALLAS a citizen of the Republic
                  of Sierra-Leone in West Africa. My father CHIEF PATRICK
                  OKON WALLAS, was the director of Sierra-Leone Diamond
                  Corporation... killed by rebels that are loyal to rebel
                  leader Fonday Sankoh...
... secret safe under his bed. Those documents are
                                about a trunk box containing the sum of US$12 million
                                which he deposited in a private security company as
                                family valuables at ABIDJAN COTE’ D IVOIRE....
                              02/02
Tel:+22507782562
...I am Steve Diallo Ouattara and 24 years old, the
                                only child of late Dr. And Mrs. Rosemary Rita Ouattara,
                                my father was a very wealthy cocoa merchant based in
                                Abidjan, the economic capital of Ivory Coast before
                                he was poisoned to death by his business associates
                              on one of their outings to discuss a business deal...
sent in by Shanno Faith 02/19/02
sent in by Kari Bunch 02/10/02
MUYIWA IGE muyiwaige\\hotmail.com Satellite phone:
                              874-762-102521 Satellite Fax : 874-762-102522
... My name is MUYIWA IGE, the eldest son of the slain
                                Attorney General and Chief Justice of Nigeria, Chief
                              Bola Ige. I got your contact in one of his brief cases...
MR.VINCENT FUSO TEL:+27835393076. FAX: +27839780097
                  JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA vincentmwz\\yahoo.com
BUSINESS PROPOSAL
... I got your contact through South Africa Information
                              Exchange (S.A.I.E)...
... I am Mr. Vincent Fuso, son of Dr. Richard Fuso,
                                who was recently murdered in the land dispute in Zimbabwe.
                                My late father held a lot of good positions under the
                                President Robert Mugabe regime... among the few black
                              Zimbabwean rich farmers murdered in cold blood...
... security and finance company... foresaw the looming
                              danger in Zimbabwe...
... the South African Development Council (SADC) has
                                continuously supported Mugabe's new land reform act...
                                frozen our family wealth and the South African government...
                                South African Foreign Exchange Policy does not allow
                              such investment... highly confidential...
Sent in by Stuart Gordon 03/08/02
From: Colman Koroma Tel: 0034650321329 Colmroma\\yahoo.com
                  I am Colman Koroma from Sierra Leone. I am the son
                  of late Dantata Koroma the former chairman / board
                  of director of Sierra Leone Diamond milling Cooperation...
                  shot by the rebels of Foday Sankoh..
... The bottom line is that we need to meet in Spain
                                to arrange the relocation of the fund to your country...
                                finalize with the Security company where to I deposited
                              the fund...
Sent in by Kenn Yuen 03/18/02
Tangoh David... South Africa... father the External
                  Affairs Minister Jonas Savimbi of Angola... phone +27-83-511-8732
                  fax +27-11-484-8910
Edward Dube, first son of George Dube, murdered in
                                Zimbabwe, and having deposited $15,3 million dollars
                              in Johannesburg (phone +27-83-751-1045 fax +27-73-181-5970)
James Ngubeni Jr from South Africa, son of James Ngubeni,
                                killed - he had $15 million dollars in a steel box,
                                deposited at the security company in Johannesburg (phone
                              +27-72-119-0360 fax +27-83-537-1478)
Sent in by Emmanuel de Poorter 03/28/02
... due consultation with my family on what to do
                                with the little fund my Dad left behind in a security
                              company.
My name is Danneil Obi, I am a lecturer
                                with the Institute of Management and Technology here
                                in Enugu, Nigeria. My father died on September
                                  11th 2001 during the terror attack on World Trade Centre
                                  in New York. Before his untimely death, he
                                owned an incorporated company. He was the former minister
                              of Power, Mine and Steel in Nigeria.
... deposited in a security company named Global
                                Security Company... a test question was
                                given as well as what the answer should be...
... arrangement with Mr. Ugwu I. Hassan (San)
                                the principle partner of U.I. Hassan & Co a well
                                known government attorney and a senior advocate of
                                Nigeria to represent us in acquiring all the legal
                                  documents required to authenticate you as the sole
                              beneficiary to the money... danniel_obi\\yahoo.com
... The attorney has charged us a total sum
                                of sixty thousand United States dollars ($60,000.00)
                                and eight thousand United States dollars ($8,000.00)
                                shall be for the acquisition of those documents and
                                the payment for the stamp duties and taxes at the
                                federal board of Inland Revenue.
Before midday today I shall pay him half of his legal
                                fee and the eight thousand as demanded so hopefully
                                by the close of work tomorrow he must have concluded
                                his assignment at Abuja. This transaction like I told
                                you shall cost us money hence we have set aside that
                                5% for the payback of all expenses that we
                                  shall incur both locally ( that is from my side ) and
                              internationally ( which is from your own side ).
... I live in the eastern part of Nigeria in a town
                                called Enugu in Enugu state I am 41years of age my
                                address is plot 60/6 Independence Layout Emene. I am
                                a lecturer with the institute of management and technology
                              (I.M.T) and my personal telephone number is 234-42-257752.
I do not know any Mr. Tony Agbo who is offering you
                              millions from a dead foreigner.
... They asked him to make sure you come forward for
                                the signing of the final fund release authority.
                                These documents are regarded highly classified in the
                                transfer of funds in the central bank of Nigeria but
                                he argued with them that you cannot come down for the
                              signing.
After much arguments they agreed on sending the classified
                                documents through DHL courier service to you for signing
                              but you are going to pay for the cost of DHL.
I should have paid on your behalf when I got the information
                                but according to the lawyer they insisted the
                                  payment must come from the sole beneficiary to
                                the money and they must confirm the payment
                                  was made from America these measure is in
                                line to forestall releasing the final fund release
                                authority to the wrong beneficiary for signing and
                                if that mistake is made the beneficiary's name could
                              be changed.
The cost of DHL and the stamp duty per page
                                of the document will cost us one thousand six hundred
                                dollars ($1,600.00) and the director international
                                remittance office of (C.B.N) has advised that if
                                we must conclude this transaction within the shortest
                                possible time you should make the payment through
                                western union money transfer in the name of his accounts
                                Clarke MR. HENRY WOMA and his address is PLOT 45
                                FEDERAL HOUSING AREA 1 GARIKI ABUJA.
Sent in by George 04/04/02
TEL:+225 07-75-80-67 ABIDJAN COTE D' IVOIRE
... I AM Mr. BROWN BENJAMINE, A LIBERIAN NATIONALITY.
                                THE ONLY CHILD OF MR. AND MRS. ERIC BROWN. MY FATHER
                                WAS A VERY RICH COCOA MERCHANT, BASED IN ABIDJAN; THE
                                ECONOMIC CAPITAL OF IVORY COAST BEFORE HE WAS POISONED
                              TO DEATH...
Sent in by Emmanuel de Poorter 04/09/02
Business Relationship Tel:0022 507 727 506
... I look forward that your day begins with the knowledge
                                of my determination to obtain your friendship. Allow
                                my small introduction to have an opportunity to take
                              a few moments of your time for us to become well acquainted.
By brief introduction, I am Benjamin Ilo Mackenze
                                the only son of Dr. James O. Mackenze former chief
                              of defense-staff of (Republic of Guinea Bissau).
... here in Abidjan he deposited ONE METALLIC TRUNK
                              BOX in a Security Company...
Sent in by FB & MAC 04/10/02
... native of Konovo in the Kerema local District
                  of Sierra Leone in West Africa region and the son of
                  late Major Kabala Ahmed, who died about eight months
                  now. My father served in the Military regime of Major
                  Johnny Johnny Koroma that ousted the civilian government
                  of President Ahmad Kabbah, as a special duty officer
                  overseeing the affairs of the AFRC Military
                  Force...
... boxes containing the money was possibly brought
                                down from Sierra Leone to Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire
                                and deposited with a financial security company for
                                safe keeping with the help of his friend in the security
                              company...
(00225) 05 74 61 87 koneahmed\\yahoo.com Kone Ahmed
                              for the family.
Sent in by Herb Steiner from 08/01
... the only daughter of my father, late Chief Alfred
                  Mane from KWANATAL ZULU in Republic of South Africa
                  (SA) I am 24 years of age. My father was limited liability
                  Cocoa and Gold merchant in JOHANESBURG South Africa
                  before his untimely death. After his business trip
                  to Abidjan -Côte d'Ivoire...
Miss Rita Williams ritawilliamsus\\ziplip.com
Sent in by Andy Ritchie 05/02/02
HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL Prince Tunde O Adisaraki tundeolusolaadisaraki\\mail.com
                  MOBILE: 234-803-3276505 TEL: 234-9-272-7064 FAX: 234-9-272-6145
... I am the son of His Royal Majesty, Iginawari Nweke
                                Adisaraki III and the traditional ruler of Eleme Province
                              in the oil area of Rivers State of Nigeria...
... lodged some funds in two boxes with a security
                                firm with an open beneficiary status. The lodgment
                              Security Code Number was also revealed to me...
05/12/02
... I am Mrs. Ruth Igbabia Kaba the wife of late chief
                  Michael P Kaba, who was a re-known diamond merchant
                  from sierra-leone. I inherited the sum of $32.5 million
                  dollars fortune...
(00225 07 92 49 32)
Sent in by Emmanuel de Poorter 05/13/02
... I AM MRS. JOYCE YARADUA WIDOW OF LATE MAJOR GENERAL
                  SHEHU M. YARADUA, A MINISTER OF TRANSPORT WHO DIED
                  ON 17TH DECEMBER 1998 AFTER A PROTRACTED ILLNESS. j_adua31\\yahoo.com
Sent in by Les Clemens 05/13/02
... I AM MRS SONIA NGORINA THE WIFE OF LATE CHIEF
                  TEJAN NGORINA, THE OWNER OF TWO GOLD FIELDS IN SIERRA
                  LEONE THAT WAS LATER TAKEN OVER FROM US BY THE GOVERNMENT
                  AND MY HUSBAND MADE THE DIRECTOR OF THE MINES BEFORE
                  THE REBEL FORCES ATTACKED AND TOOK IT OVER...
225-07820699
Sent in by Emmanuel de Poorter 05/21/02
... eldest son of the late Gervais Chirhalwirhwa Nkunzimwami,
                  (a foremost human rights activist, Democratic Republic
                  of Congo)... died.. as a result of the inhumane treatment
                  meted out on him while in prison by the RCD Government
                  of Goma and Rwanda allies...
... twist in my father's success story following his
                                confrontation with the RCD - Goma and Rwandan attack
                              on the Congolese people...
... security firm marked as personal effects through
                                diplomatic courier services.. family decided to seek
                              political asylum in Lome-Togo...
Benjami J. Gervais 05/28/02
I am an Irish citizen living and working in Singapore.
                              A few days ago a friend of mine asked me for advice.
It seems that she was contacted by a lawyer who told
                                her that an ex-colleague of hers had died and left
                                her the legacy of a metal box containing family treasures.
                                He had arranged to have it shipped by  Europa
                                  Diplomatic Courier Services but the shipment
                                had supposedly been intercepted in Jakarta, Indonesia
                                and the customs officers were demanding $10,000 US
                              for its release.
She was not suspicious as she had worked with the
                                deceased several years ago but I checked out the company
                                in London and they don't exist. I looked it up on the
                                internet and no trace there either. I then looked through
                                all the correspondence and came across another name "Assistance
                                2000 Securities Organisation" which is how I found
                              your site. Thanks.
I now plan on contacting the police to see if they
                              will set up a sting operation to catch these fraudsters.
John Kernan 07/01/02 
NICOLAS MANE.
                  LIBERTY CINQ DAKAR-SENEGAL.
... the son of (GEN. ANSUOMAN MANE) the former army
                                chief of staff in guinea bissau, ... died in
                                support of the president ( KUMBA YALLA ) in AFIA...
                              deposited in a security company here in DAKAR, SENEGAL...
Sent in by Dirk Jacobs, Bangkok 07/29/02
... My husband was murdered by some Moslem extremists
                  when he publicly condemned the 11th September terrorist
                  attack on World Trade Centre in USA. But before he
                  finally gave up the ghost he revealed the sum
                  of $40millionUSD he deposited with a Security and Finance
                  firm to me.
Now my life and that of my 11year old son is in danger
                                because the Moslem extremists are still after my life
                                and that of my son. They have burnt our family house
                              and our known property...
Princess Tifny Okoli 
Sent in by Alexandros Nipirakis 10/03/02 
[ Home ] [ Up] 
Les Henderson

					Box 159,
					Azilda, ON,
					P0M 1B0
Please take a few minutes to read our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy
                    © COPYRIGHT 2000-2019 - Coyote Ridge Publishing / Les Henderson ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Alive



 

Pablo Vercotti is a character in the 2D Universe who appears as a minor character in Grand Theft Auto 1.

Pablo Vercotti is, in 1997, a member of the Vercotti Gang who resides in Tellberg, Liberty City. The protagonist drives Pablo from a diamond wholesalers to his home in Tellberg. The protagonist later saves Pablo from a group of armed men attempting to kill him.




TRADEMARK FREE ZONE - Network Solutions has no knowledge of whether any content on this page violates any third party
					intellectual property rights. Network Solutions will promptly remove any content reasonably objected to
					by the Owner of a pre-existing trademark. If you have a Trademark issue,
					please contact trademarkfreezone@networksolutions.com.				


		7/23/2016
	



		1 Comment
	


							Looking to the UN resolutions of civil and political rights that CANADA and BC are signatory to and the associated rapportuer and duty to accommodate maybe your next step along with a substantial Notice to Admit style agreement  www.parl.gc.ca/content/lop/researchpublications/2012-01-e.pdf
					




		RSS Feed
	


December 2018

October 2018

August 2018

June 2018

February 2018

January 2018

December 2017

November 2017

July 2017

June 2017

May 2017

April 2017

March 2017

February 2017

January 2017

December 2016

November 2016

October 2016

September 2016

August 2016

July 2016

May 2016

April 2016

March 2016

February 2016

January 2016

December 2015

November 2015

September 2015

July 2015

June 2015

May 2015

April 2015

March 2015

February 2015

January 2015

December 2014

November 2014

October 2014

September 2014

August 2014

July 2014

June 2014

May 2014

April 2014

March 2014

February 2014

January 2014

December 2013

November 2013

October 2013

September 2013

August 2013

July 2013

June 2013

May 2013

April 2013

March 2013

February 2013

January 2013

December 2012

November 2012

October 2012

September 2012

August 2012

July 2012

June 2012

May 2012

April 2012

March 2012

February 2012

January 2012

December 2011

November 2011

October 2011

September 2011

August 2011

July 2011

June 2011

May 2011

April 2011

March 2011

February 2011

January 2011

December 2010

November 2010

October 2010

September 2010



All

Adrian Dix

Alexa Mcdonough

Alex Tsakumis

Al Gore

Allan Castle

Allan Gregg

Allan Seckel

Andy Scott

Angela Davies

Attorney General For B.C.

Attorney General Of British Columbia

Barry Penner

Benjamin Fulford

Benjamin Netanyahu

Bilderberg Club

Bill Reid

Bribery

Calgary Flooding

Campbell River

Canadian Judicial Council

Canadian Military

Carole James

Carolyn Layden Stevenson

Carolyn Layden-Stevenson

Chief Judge Thomas Crabtree

Chief Justice Alan Lutfy

Chief Justice Beverley Mclachlin

Chief Justice Christopher Hinkson

Chief Justice Donald Brenner

Chief Justice Pierre Blais

Chief Shawn Atleo

Chris Beresford

Christy Clark

Clean Energy

Council On Foreign Relations

Crooked Judges

Crooked Lawyers

C.S.I.S.

David Cameron

David Flaherty

David Fonberg

David Loukedelis

David Loukidelis

Dead Judges

Department Of Foreign Affairs And International Trade

Department Of Justice

Department Of National Defence

Deputy Minister A.G.B.C. Bob Gillen

Dirty Oil

Doug Finley

Douglas Eastwook

Douglas Michal Flynn

Edgar Bronfman

Elwood Veitch

Enbridge Pipeline

Eric Noel

Federal Court

Federal Court Of Appeal

Francis Fox

Fred Doucet

Freemasonry

Geoffery Cowper

Gerry Lenoski

Gillian Wallace

Glen Clark

Gordon Campbell

Governor General Johnson

Governor Jerry Brown

Graham Underwood

Grand Canal

Graveyard Of The Guilty

Harold Long

Harvie Andre

Heenan Blaikie

Henry Kissinger

Herb Grey

Herman Van Ommen

Hugh Gwillim

Ian Waddell

Integrity Commissioner

Israel

Izzy Asper

Jack Ebbels

Jack Hooper

Jack Layton

James Flaherty

Jesus Christ

Jim Coutts

Jim Judd

Joanne Platt

John Doncan

John Horgan

John Waddell

Judge Carol Baird Ellen

Judge John Lenaghan

Judicial Legal Mafia

Justice Albert Cromwell

Justice Austin Cullen

Justice Carolyn Layden Stevenson

Justice Carolyn Layden-Stevenson

Justice Carolyn Laydon Stevenson

Justice Edgar Sexton

Justice Edmond Blanchard

Justice Gordon Funt

Justice Had Oliver

Justice Ian Binnie

Justice Karen Sharlow

Justice Louis Lebel

Justice Marc Nadon

Justice Rosie Abella

Justin Trudeau

Keith Ashfield

Ken Boessenkool

Ken Bossenkool

Keystone Pipeline

Lac Megantic Explosion

Lang Michener

Lawrence Cannon

Law Society Of British Columbia

Lieutenant Governor David Lam

Lori Sterling

Lucien Bouchard

Macleod Dixon

Marie-Lucie Morin

Martin Mason

Mary Polak

Maureen Maloney

Maurice Foster

Maximus Inc.

Megantic Explosion

Melanie Chartier

Mexican President Calderon

Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto

Mexico

Michael Armstrong

Michael Ignatieff

Michel Gratton

Michel Trudeau

Mike Duffy

Moe Sihota

Morris Rosenberg

Mother Earth

Murder

Murder By Cancer

Myles Kirvan

Nancy Pelosi

Nawapa

Nawapac026462bcf

Nicholas Sarkozy

Nigel Wright

Obstruction Of Justice

Olivier Metzner

Organized Crime

Partick Kinsella

Paul Desmarais

Paul Fraser

Paul Reichman

Peter Ameerali

Peter Donolo

Peter Lougheed

Peter Mckay

Pierre Legault

Pope Benedict

Pope Francis

Premier Christy Clark

Premier Glen Clark

Premier Gordon Campbell

President Obama

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney

Prime Minister Jean Chretien

Prime Minister John A. MacDonald

Prime Minister Lester Pearson

Prime Minister Paul Martin

Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau

Prime Minister Stephen Harper

Prince Charles

Prince Edward

Prince Harry

Prince Phillip

Prince William

Privy Council

Prothonotary Lafreniere

Q.C.

Quebec Premier Jean Charest

Queen Beatrix

Queen Elizabeth

Rcmp

Rcmp Commissioner Elliotte

Rcmp Commissioner Paulson

Rcmp Deputy Commissioner Bass

Reg Alcock

Rexton New Brunswick

Richard Butler

Richard Fadden

Richard Fyfe

Rich Coleman

Robert Fonberg

Robert Kaplan

Rob Nicholson

Sandra Gail Roberts

Senator Norm Atkins

Sex Scandal

Sexual Perverts

Shirley Bond

Simon Fothergill

Site C Dam

Stephen Harper

Stephen Owen

Stockwell Day

Supreme Court Of Canada

Surrey Bomb

Ted Hughes

Theft

Themis Program Management And Consulting Ltd.

Thomas Mulciar

Tim Murphy

Tony Clement

Toronto Flooding

Tsawassen Bomb

Ujjal Dosanjh

United States Navy

Us Army Corps Of Engineers

Vic Toews

Vito Rizzuto

Water Dragon

Water Exports

Water War Crimes

Wayne Wouters

Wcw Western Canada Water Enterprises Ltd

Weather Warfare

Wikileaks

William Pentney

World Commission On Water




Taste Notes7/4/15 TEMP 23ºC
8/4/15 temp  20ºC burbugea con menor intesidadNotesolla bielmeier
he puesto 16l agua+grano = volumen de21,489 l
volumen grano= 5,489l aprox
D ANTES DE HERVIR 1052 . V ANTES HERVIR 22,4L
DESPUES DE HERVIR QUEDAN 18.1 L Y DF 1073
perdida por evaporacion y turbio= 4,3 l

4/6/2015 12:11:28 PM : inoculada levadura
Notesolla bielmeier
he puesto 16l agua+grano = volumen de21,489 l
volumen grano= 5,489l aprox
D ANTES DE HERVIR 1052 . V ANTES HERVIR 22,4L
DESPUES DE HERVIR QUEDAN 18.1 L Y DF 1073
perdida por evaporacion y turbio= 4,3 l

4/6/2015 12:11:28 PM : inoculada levadura

Sunday when we open from and dions contact page




Preferences
Languages



All
Audio
Video
Applications
Games
Porn
Other







Casino free spins sign up
Why wait, Slingo for it today. See MLB international prospects rankings, scouting reports, video, stats, stories and July 2 rumors and predictions from Ben Badler. Dig, explode and spin for real cash prizes in the Gold Rush video slot by Pragmatic Play. The progressive bonus means huge jackpots for the lucky online miner. I am sure a lot of you will recognize the Super Jackpot Party slot from WMS (Williams). It is their flagship slot game and they even named their Jackpot Party online casino after it. RPG BOT is a collection of free, open source web tools and content for tabletop roleplaying games. Cheap desktop motherboard, Buy Quality socket am3 directly from China motherboard socket am3 Suppliers: Gigabyte original motherboard GA-970A-DS3P Socket AM3AM3 DDR3 free pirates revenge slots boards 32GB 970 Desktop Motherboard 888 poker holdem shipping Buy Gigabyte AMD AM3 ATX 4xDDR3 HDMI Realtek ALC892 2xPCIE 8xUSB 2. free pirates revenge slots 4xUSB3. 1 Gen 1 LAN Motherboard - 78LMT-USB3 Casino strengths and weaknesses Everything Else - Amazon. com FREE DELIVERY possible on free pirates revenge slots purchases Visita estas entradas sobre programas ideales, para buscar informaci243;n sobre tu procesador u otros componentes: CPU-Z, ideal para recopilar informaci243;n del free pirates revenge slots, RAM, motherboard, ect. ) GA-970A-DS3P FX AM3 ATX AMD Motherboard. Micro Skagit casino slot machines 15 Day Return Policy. We guarantee your satisfaction on every product we sell with a full refund - and you illinois gambling tax on winnings even free pirates revenge slots a free pirates revenge slots. Jan 30, 2018nbsp;0183;32;Hello,i got a motherboard, Asus M4A89GTD Pro, open box and installed it, and upon booting up young black jack sequel were no beeps and a blank screen. i took out the video card and both ram sticks and tried again, but. Amazon. com: ZOTAC GeForce GT 730 Zone Edition 4GB DDR3 PCI Express 2. 0 x 16 (x8 lanes) Graphics Card (ZT-71115-20L): Computers amp; Accessories Cheap motherboard socket am3, Buy Quality desktop motherboard directly from China socket am3 Suppliers: Gigabyte GA-970A-DS3P original motherboard Socket AM3AM3 DDR3 970A-DS3P boards 32GB Desktop Motherboard Find venue seating charts, ticket information and event schedules using the Vivid Seats venue guide. The Bell Centre (French: Centre Bell), formerly known as the Molson Centre (or Le Centre Molson), is a sports and entertainment complex in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It opened on March 16, 1996, after nearly three years under construction. Buy More Concerts tickets at Ticketmaster.

©2019 Powered by Wordpress. Azure Basic Theme by C. A. Brown.
Vos appareils électroménagers réparés en 3 clics


 


											5,90 € ttc 











Ajouter au panier





												En stock
											

Livré à partir du 24 avril




Mondial Relay

                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    entre le 26/04 et le 30/04
                                            





Colissimo (domicile)

                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    entre le 25/04 et le 27/04
                                            





Chronopost Pickup (en relais sous 24h)

                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    24/04
                                            







                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    entre le 26/04 et le 30/04
                                            

                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    entre le 25/04 et le 27/04
                                            

                                                    Date de livraison estimée après expédition :
                                                
                                                                                                    24/04
                                            

Commande expédiée aujourd'hui
					Si vous commandez avant 15h00 *
				

Garantie meilleur prix
					Alignement si vous trouvez moins cher
				

Trouvez aujourd’hui un réparateur près de chez vous
					L’aide qu’il vous faut au meilleur prix
				

				SOS Accessoire vous aide à déterminer les causes de votre panne et vous guide grâce à des tutoriels afin que vous puissiez réparer vous-même vos appareils. Vous ferez en plus des économies. 
			

				Bien nettoyer votre aspirateur, c’est lui assurer une longue vie sans souci. A l'aide de notre tuto nous allons vous donner toutes les étapes nécessaires et tous les conseils au bon nettoyage de celui-ci. 
			

				Votre aspirateur diffuse de mauvaises odeurs et vous ne savez pas pourquoi ? Grâce à notre tuto Fred va vous expliquer quelles peuvent être les causes mais aussi comment éviter ce désagrément. 
			

Paiement sécurisé
						Carte bancaire, chèque, Paypal et virement
					

Livraison rapide
						Faites-vous livrer chez vous, en point relais
					

Satisfait ou remboursé
						Retours gratuits : vous avez 30 jours pour changer d’avis
					

Des experts à votre service
						Nos experts sont disponibles, contactez-nous !
					
12 rue Jean Monnet
78990 Élancourt, France
01 30 50 55 15Du mardi au vendredi, 10h-18h.

      



			En poursuivant votre navigation, vous acceptez l'utilisation de cookies afin de réaliser des statistiques d'audiences et ainsi vous proposer des services ou offres adaptées à vos centres d'intérêts 
							En savoir plus

Pas de produits

Police in New York say they have a suspect in custody after a startling attack left one woman dead and another seriously injured at a Brooklyn apartment last week. As CrimeOnline previously reported, an injured woman told an Uber driver …
A Missouri woman who admitted fatally shooting her husband—a Ku Klux Klan imperial wizard—and dumping his body in a river was sentenced Friday to life in prison for the February 2017 slaying. According to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Malissa Ancona, 46, …
Authorities in California say a woman was caught on video dumping a bag of newborn puppies near a dumpster outside of a business last in Coachella week. According to a Facebook post from the Riverside County Animal Services, the incident …
An Arizona woman accused of sending her date over 150,000 text messages while threatening to turn his kidneys into sushi, says she is not guilty and thinks it’s “ridiculous” she’s behind bars. “I just think it’s ridiculous. I can’t believe that …
George Zimmerman, the Florida man who killed Trayvon Martin in 2012, has been banned from multiple dating apps, ABC News reports. Tinder has removed Zimmerman’s profile because of safety reasons, according to a statement from the company. “We take the …
A vehicle tied to a missing California teen and two murder suspects has been found near the Mexican border, KABC-TV reports. Authorities searching for 15-year-old Alora Benitez located a vehicle on Friday in San Ysidro, a border town south of …
Authorities in Nevada say a man’s attempt to stop a drunk driver from leaving a parking lot nearly ended in tragedy. According to KOLO, 22-year-old Orlando Hidalgo-Martinez was leaving a strip club in Reno early Thursday morning when he attempted …
Authorities in Georgia say a homeowner resorted to arson when faced with a foreclosure against the spacious estate. According to the New York Post, 68-year-old Stanley Edward Stephens was arrested along with his alleged accomplice after the nearly 6,000-square-foot Silver …
Authorities in Pennsylvania say four individuals are facing criminal charges related to the stabbing death of the grandfather of one suspect. According to Fox News, police say three suspects — including the victim’s granddaughter — had been arrested as of …
Authorities in New York City are on the hunt for a suspect after a woman was brutally stabbed to death and another woman seriously injured in an attack that played out with a young child in the home. According to …
Authorities in Florida say two middle-school students were arrested on suspicion of plotting a mass kidnapping and murder. According to ABC News, a teacher allegedly spotted the two 14-year-old girls become “hysterical” as they looked for a folder in class …
The mother of missing Andrew “A.J.” Freund, a 5-year-old Illinois boy who reportedly disappeared from his home Wednesday night after his parents put him to bed, hired a lawyer and left her home to stay with a friend, amid investigations …
New details have emerged in the colossal divorce between Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and his soon-to-be ex-wife, Mackenzie Bezos, the DailyMail reports. According to recently obtained court filings, Mackenzie Bezos could get at least $1 billion more than was initially …
A small Wisconsin community is in shock after two children and a man were found dead inside a home on Friday, WTMJ-TV reports. Police responded to a call about a domestic disturbance at a house late Thursday night in Seymour, …
The young boy who survived the fall from a third-story balcony at a Minnesota mall earlier this month is “showing real signs of recovery,” according to his family. As CrimeOnline previously reported, 5-year-old Landen Hoffman was thrown from the ledge …
Authorities in Montana say a man has been arrested on suspicion of killing his girlfriend last year. According to NBC News, an affidavit cites surveillance camera footage that appears to show Gregg Green “carrying a very heavy object, ‘cradle style’ …
South Carolina officials announced Friday that criminal charges won’t be filed in last month’s death of a 10-year-old girl who reportedly died after a fight at her middle school, revealing the fifth-grader died as a result of an undiagnosed medical …
As 5-year-old Illinois boy Andrew “A.J” Freund remains missing, police obtained a search warrant and raided the family’s Crystal Lake home on Friday, where the child was last seen two days ago. Chicago Tribune reports that around seven vehicles pulled …
Authorities in Texas say a 69-year-old woman was arrested after she was treated for injuries they say were self-inflicted burns. According to KTRK, Houston police dispatched officers to the home of Janet Alexander on Friday morning in connection with her …
Police in Fort Worth, Texas, have released a letter that may contain a cryptic clue into the unsolved murder of a 17-year-old girl in 1974. According to the Dallas Morning News, Carla Walker was raped and brutally murdered in February …
Hours after a Missouri man was bailed out of jail by a non-profit agency on April 9, he crept over to his wife’s home and brutally attacked her, according to police. KMOV reports that on January 6, Samuel Lee Scott, 54, …
Authorities in Ohio announced Friday that the body of a 14-year-old boy who vanished last week was found buried in a shallow grave on a farm this morning. The Carroll County Sheriff’s Office said Jonathon Minard was found dead in …
The Klaas Kids Foundation’s mission is to stop crimes against children.
Dan Savage points a finger at the Catholic Church for being the kind of criminal organization that drives him to atheism—despite the fact that he still wants to believe he'll see his mom in heaven someday. Dan writes the sex advice column Savage Love and is the author of several books including The Commitment. (16 minutes)
This American Life is produced in collaboration with WBEZ Chicago and delivered to stations by PRX The Public Radio Exchange.
Aggie hoists a brew c. 1920s. [Photo courtesy LAPL]
Aggie Underwood was born on December 17, 1902 and Deranged L.A. Crimes was born on December 17, 2012, so there’s a lot to celebrate today. We have so many candles on our birthday cake it will take a gale force wind to blow them all out.
It was Aggie’s career as a Los Angeles journalist that inspired me to begin this blog; and my admiration for Aggie and her accomplishments has grown in the years since I first became aware of her.
Aggie at a crime scene in 1946.
Aggie’s newspaper career began on a whim.  In late 1926, she was tired of wearing her sister’s hand-me-down silk stockings and desperately want a pair of her own. When she asked her husband Harry for the money, he demurred.  He said he was sorry, they simply couldn’t afford them. Aggie got huffy and said she’d buy them herself. It was an empty threat–until a close friend called out of the blue the day following the argument and asked Aggie if she would be interested in a temporary job at the Daily Record. Aggie never intended to work outside her home, but this was an opportunity she couldn’t pass up.
In her 1949 autobiography, Newspaperwoman, Aggie described her first impression of the Record’s newsroom as a “weird wonderland”. She was initially intimidated by the men in shirtsleeves shouting, cursing and banging away on typewriters, but it didn’t take long before intimidation became admiration. She fell in love with the newspaper business. At the end of her first year at her “temporary” job she realized that she wanted to be a reporter. From that moment on Aggie pursued her goal with passion and commitment.
Aggie at her desk after becoming City Editor at the Evening Herald & Express. Note the baseball bat — she used it to shoo away pesky Hollywood press agents. [Photo courtesy LAPL]
During a time when most female journalists were assigned to report on women’s club activities and fashion trends, Aggie covered the most important crime stories of the day. She attended actress Thelma Todd’s autopsy in December 1935 and was the only Los Angeles reporter to score a byline in the Black Dahlia case in January 1947. Aggie’s career may have started on a whim, but it lasted over 40 years.
Look closely and you can see Aggie’s byline under “Night In a Motel”.  [Photo courtesy LAPL]
Over the past six years I’ve corresponded with many of you and I’ve been fortunate enough to meet some of you in person. Your support and encouragement mean a lot to me, and whether you are new to the blog or have been following Deranged L.A. Crimes from the beginning I want to thank you sincerely for your readership.
There will be many more stories in 2019, and a few appearances too. Look for me in shows on the Investigation Discovery Network (I’ve been interviewed for Deadly Women, Deadly Affairs, Evil Twins, Evil Kin and several others.) I recently filmed an episode of Ice Cold Blood for the Oxygen Network, and I did a short sport for the podcast Hollywood & Crime, which will air in January.  I may have a couple of local lectures scheduled too.  You can also find me several times a year on Esotouric’s Bus Adventures crime bus. I’ll be co-hosting the Black Dahlia tour on January 5, 2019 and other tours throughout the year.
For several months I have been working on a book of true crime tales titled, Ways to Be Wicked, Volume 1, Los Angeles Crimes 1919-1949.  I’ll keep you posted on the publishing date (best guess now is late January 2019).
Whether it is on television, in the blog or some other medium I’m looking forward to telling more crime tales in 2019.
Happy Holidays and stay safe!
Joan
GRACE HUNT
Ohio native Grace Hunt was 17 when she married 41-year-old Charles Price Grogan in Los Angeles on April 5, 1902. It was an advantageous marriage for both.  Charles was so successful in the olive business that the press had christened him the “Olive King,” and with beautiful Grace at his side, he had a queen worthy of his stature. A few days prior to their fifth wedding anniversary they welcomed a son, whom they named Charles Patrick Grogan.
Grace and Charles were married for over a decade before they separated. The difference in their ages may have sunk the marriage, or it may have been due to any number of other private problems. Whatever their reasons, the couple was separated by the late 1910s and divorced by the 1920 census – at least that was how Charles declared his marital status.  Grace, for the same census, gave her marital status as widow.  Why the discrepancy? Simple; divorce stigmatized women.
Grace was luckier than many women because California, at least in its laws, was more tolerant of divorce than other states. The State’s first divorce law in 1851 recognized impotence, adultery, extreme cruelty, desertion or neglect, habitual intemperance, fraud, and conviction of a felony as legitimate grounds for divorce.
Despite the law’s progressive attitude, divorce could ruin a woman socially, which is why many women found it easier to claim widowhood than risk suffering the loss of status if their divorce became public knowledge. It seems strange to us now in these days of no-fault divorce and “conscious uncoupling” (a phrase coined by celebrity Gwenyth Paltrow to describe her separation from her musician husband, Chris Martin), but divorce was not a simple matter when Grace and Charles ended their marriage.
The couple’s family and intimate friends would likely have known the truth, and the rest of local society may have acknowledged Grace’s widowhood with a nod and a wink and allowed her to continue her fiction unchallenged.
As it happened, Grace’s claim to widowhood would edge closer to the truth when Charles died of apoplexy (internal bleeding – perhaps due to a stroke) on July 8, 1921.
The Olive King was a wealthy man who loved his only son. He bequeathed Patrick his entire fortune, estimated to be between $1 and $2 million dollars. Grace was responsible for administering Patrick’s monthly allowance, the princely sum of $800 per month, until he turned 25.  Grace and Charles had come to an agreement upon their divorce. Grace surrendered her rights of inheritance if Charles would pay her approximately $3000 per year.  Additionally, the couple agreed that Charles would create a trust fund, not to exceed $50,000, for her maintenance. To put things into perspective, $50,000 in 1921 is equivalent to nearly three quarter of a million dollars today. And Patrick’s monthly allowance is currently equivalent to about $12,000.  A fortune like the one Charles left Patrick and Grace can attract the best people in society – it can also be a magnet for the worst of humanity.
In her 30s, Grace was beautiful, wealthy and socially prominent. She would make a wonderful wife for the right man. Tragically, the wrong man courted and won her.
NEXT TIME: The Murder Complex continues.
12 Days Of The Spiral’s Yuletide Holiday Has Begun

From now through December 18th, the Royals at KingsIsle will be celebrating the 12 Days of the Spiral for 2018!
Each day you’ll find a different surprise in store for both your Wizard and your Pirate of the Spiral! Some days there will be free giveaways, while the others have great promotions or new items from the Crown Shop. Check back each morning to see the new surprise!
The Royals of KingsIsle are in the U.S.’s Central Time Zone, and the new celebrations generally begin at 9am Central Time. So make sure you make adjustments for your time zone.
Day 1:
Celebrate the season of giving with one of the first holiday mounts for 2018. The Charity Noelephant and the Charity Bah Humbug are back in the Crown Shop through December 18th, 2018.
Net proceeds up to fifty thousand dollars will be split equally between Creative Action Austin and Children’s Health.  The Bah Humbug and Noelephant purchases do not carry over to both games. If you purchase a Bah Humbug or Noelephant mount in the Wizard101 Crown Shop, you will not be able use the mount in Pirate101 unless you purchase it in the Pirate101 Crown Shop as well.

© 2018 A Pirates Portal; Springwolf, D.D., Ph.D. All Rights Reserved.

JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
                    Devi abilitare JavaScript nel tuo browser per utlizzare le funzioni di questo sito.                
Benvenuto in CALZATUREGINEVRA.IT 
Scegli per PRIMA COSA il TUO NUMERO selezionando la sottocategoria.
Scegli per PRIMA COSA il TUO NUMERO selezionando la sottocategoria.

39 Prodotto/I




Prezzo:

                    150,00 €                


Solo a

                    105,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    160,00 €                


Solo a

                    112,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    150,00 €                


Solo a

                    105,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    140,00 €                


Solo a

                    98,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    150,00 €                


Solo a

                    105,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    140,00 €                


Solo a

                    98,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    120,00 €                


Solo a

                    84,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    120,00 €                


Solo a

                    84,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    120,00 €                


Solo a

                    84,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    85,00 €                


Solo a

                    59,50 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    130,00 €                


Solo a

                    91,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    95,00 €                


Solo a

                    47,50 €                


Prezzo:

                    80,00 €                


Solo a

                    40,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    140,00 €                


Solo a

                    70,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    140,00 €                


Solo a

                    70,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    140,00 €                


Solo a

                    70,00 €                


Prezzo:

                    250,00 €                


Solo a

                    175,00 €                


39 Prodotto/I



Calzature Ginevra è un'azienda presente nel territorio da 30 anni e due generazioni. Sinonimo di esperienza e professionalità, Ginevra vuole offrire alla sua vasta clientela una sempre più accurata ricerca del dettaglio nell'ambito di tutto ciò che è il grande mondo dell'accessorio è della calzatura, tutelando qualità e risparmio.
SPEDIZIONE GRATUITA in tutta italia tramite corriere espresso Bartolini
RESO GRATUITO il 100% delle spese di restituzione è a carico di Calzature Ginevra per te zero costi aggiuntivi
ORIGINALITA' 100% su tutti i nostri prodotti è garantita!
Hai difficoltà nell'effettuare un ordine?Nessun problemaORDINA TELEFONICAMENTE
Tel: +39 0722 88481Fax: +39 0722 88481
Scrivi a:shop@calzatureginevra.it
store ACQUALAGNA: +39 0721 798514store MONTECCHIO: +39 0721 497795
Attendere prego...


Landesverband | 
Geschäftsstelle |
Vorstand |
Parteitag |
Onlineparteitag |
Schiedsgericht |
Datenschutzbeauftragter |
Gliederungen |
Mitglieder |
Finanzen |
Wahlen |
Aktionen |
Marina Brandenburg |
Teilhabebeauftragter


Nächstes Treffen für interessierte Bürger und Piraten des KV MOL(Das Treffen findet i.d.R. jeden dritten Montag im Monat statt.)

...

 

Link zum Blog des Kreisverbandes MOL

Veranstaltungs-Kalender BB

Veranstaltungen B U N D

 
Das NOT-PAD  für MOL | Terminübersicht | bearbeiten



Ich vermute es lag an der Einladungsroutine.

--Kola Colman (Diskussion) 17:52, 14. Aug. 2018 (CEST)





WK   I: Andreas Schramm, Raoul Schramm
WK  II: Jeannette Paech, Daniela Benze
WK III: Dr. Erymas Mulugeta, Ronny Eigenfeldt
WK  IV: Corinna Schramm
WK   V: Gerhard Luhmer, Mathias Täge

1 Gemeinde Kleinmachnow (20612) Stadt Teltow (25787) - 46 399

2 Gemeinde Stahnsdorf (15271) Stadt Beelitz (12195) Gemeinde Michendorf (12405) Gemeinde Nuthetal (9065) - 48 936

3 Gemeinde Seddiner See (4597) Stadt Werder (Havel) (25680) Gemeinde Schwielowsee (10631) - 40 908

4 Amt Beetzsee (8186) Groß Kreutz (8358) Kloster Lehnin (10849) Amt Wusterwitz (5178) Amt Ziesar (6078) - 38 649

5 Bad Belzig (11142) Amt Brück (10764) Amt Niemegk (4662) Stadt Treuenbrietzen (7462) Gemeinde Wiesenburg/Mark (4271) - 38 301



-> Mathias Täge



-> Dr. Erymas Mulugeta



-> Raoul Schramm, Andreas Schramm



-> Jeannette Paech




Wahlkreis 1 - Rathenow, Premnitz und die Gemeinde Milower Land: Kandidat ist Christian Rieck

Wahlkreis 2 - Nennhausen, Rhinow und Friesack, außerdem die Stadt Nauen und die Stadt Ketzin: Kandidaten sind Gary Koch, Daniela Arendt, Raimond Heydt, Nicole Niemoth

Wahlkreis 3 - Schönwalde-Glien, Brieselang, Wustermark und Dallgow-Döberitz: Kandidaten sind Vivien Tharun, Michael Laarß

Wahlkreis 4 - Falkensee: Kandidat ist Lars Krause



Wahlkreis I Lars Krause
Wahlkreis II Bernd Schönitz
Wahlkreis III Karoline Hintz
Wahlkreis IV Sebastian Hölzel


-> Christian Rieck


-> Raimond Heydt, Gary Koch, Nicole Rau, Daniela Arendt, Julia Pint, Benjamin Lindner


-> Nicole Niemoth


-> Nicole Niemoth


-> Michael Laarß

Treffen: 

Nächster Treffpunkt @PiratenPotsdam: Freitag 18.04.2019, 20.00 Uhr
Brandung-Live #17 - Der SV-Potsdam-Talk 28.04.2019 20.00h
Ort: Mumble-Server: Mumble AG Technik 

--> EU-Wahl 2019
--> Landtagswahl 2019

Terminübersicht | bearbeiten






Are you ready for a new you? Call to Start Now: (352) 259-5190

Achieve Your Optimal Healthwith Total Nutrition & Therapeutics

 

 

The TNT Mission

At TNT, our goal is to empower our clients to achieve their optimal state of health, whether 8 or 85. Our vision is to create a wellness mindset momentum that is infectious—leaving obesity, illness, and disease behind—for lives that are truly healthy. Looking better, feeling better and functioning optimally is the key to a life of vitality! Let us help you go beyond weight loss to achieve wellness for life!

 

 
 
 

Total Nutrition and Therapeutics was established in October 2007 by owner and family nurse practitioner Lori Esarey, MS, ARNP-C, FAARFM, ABAAHP. Total Nutrition and Therapeutics was established with one core goal, to help clients reach their optimal state of health taking a food first approach. Recognizing inflammation as the root cause of 90% of disease states, and the relationship that one’s nutritional status plays on US disease epidemics, our practice focuses on helping clients understand their current state of health and degree of inflammation, and we create individualized, customized nutritional plans and teach effective ways to carry them out. From 18 months old to 89, each of our clients is unique and their plan for success must be just as unique. Our  programs are designed specifically with this individuality in mind and starts with you coming in, exploring your health and wellness goals and determining what TNT can do for you.

 


 


 


** Of course we can help you achieve your optimum health, whatever age you are!

 

 
MS, ARNP-C, FAARFM, ABAAHP

Lori Esarey has been a certified family nurse practitioner since 1995. After working many years in acute care settings and in doctor offices treating the sick, Lori grew weary of treating disease with conventional methods of health care that failed to address the root causes of disease, and was ready to take another approach. She recognized disease could be changed through proper nutrition. Her passion led her back to school, graduating from USF with a Masters in Nutritional Medicine in 2012 and completing her board certification on anti-aging and restorative medicine in 2013. Lori’s passion, combined with her education and an amazing team, is the secret to success in reaching your wellness goals.
MS, ARNP-C, FAARFM, ABAAHP

Lori Esarey has been a certified family nurse practitioner since 1995. After working many years in acute care settings and in doctor offices treating the sick, she grew weary of treating disease and was ready to take another approach. She recognized that the conventional model of health care failed to address the root causes of disease, many of which could be changed through proper nutrition. Her passion led her back to school graduating from USF with a Masters in Nutritional Medicine in 2012 and completing her board certification in anti-aging and restorative medicine in 2013. Lori’s passion, combined with her education and an amazing team, is the secret to your success in reaching your wellness goals.

 

 
Heather comes to TNT with 14+ years of banking and management experience. Her expertise in finance, organizational skills, and ability to balance many projects at the same time makes her an integral part of the TNT team. Heather has been married for 9 years and is the mom of two boys, ages 6 and 1 1/2. Born and raised in Lake County, Heather is very involved in the community and in her downtime, she enjoys spending time with her family, going camping, and scalloping.
Practice Administrator
Sandra, known as Sandy to those around her, has always been interested in the area of skin care even as she pursued a career in education. After obtaining both a bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Nebraska, she would go on to teach high school history for nearly thirty years. Her successful career included two Fulbright international study programs, one in Pakistan and another in Zimbabwe and Malawi in Africa, which led her to write and implement an African history course. When Sandy’s husband was transferred to the Leesburg area thirteen years ago, she saw an opportunity to combine her love of teaching with her interest in skin care. Upon the certification as an aesthetician from the State of Florida, she trained with a renowned Cidesco Diplomat and founder of a worldwide skin care company on facial techniques and ingredient training. Working at national conventions with this company also increased Sandy’s experience in educating women on skin care issues. She has also taught aesthetics at Lake Technical School and the privately held Salon Professional Academy in Inverness. There is always an open door for clients at Total Nutrition and Therapeutics, and Sandy offers complimentary consultations for skin analysis and product selection.
Licensed Aesthetician
Caiti is our Director of First Impressions, greeting everyone with an infectious smile. She is working on her BA in Organizational Management, married to her high school sweetheart, Brady and has two fur babies, Lucy and Gracie. Caiti says her inspiration for working at TNT is: “I believe in this company with every being in my soul. Starting here as a client first, employee later, I am able to relate to the exact feelings of our clients. Being able to encourage them also encourages me to keep strong on my life journey.”
Social Media Coordinator
Audrey has worked in the wellness industry since 2015. After graduating in 2012 from the University of South Florida College of Business with a Bachelor’s in finance, Audrey began implementing changes in her lifestyle which had a powerful influence in her life. Through observing the true results of consistent mindful eating, exercise and stress management, she realized she wanted to shift her career to focus on health and wellness. While gaining experience in corporate wellness, Audrey began to pursue further education in Health Coaching, Yoga, Ayurveda and Nutrition.Audrey’s goal is to show you how easy and worth it can be to make your lifestyle a healthy lifestyle. Through learning strategies and techniques to fuel your journey, anything is possible! Audrey is a Certified Yoga Teacher and Health and Wellness Coach certified by the Health Coach Institute.
HWC, RYT, Life Coach
Christine has been with TNT since 2008 and has worn several different hats—receptionist, inventory specialist, lab technician, office manager, and patient care coordinator. Christine battled with high blood pressure and weight problems in the past and working at TNT has motivated and inspired her to help others reach their wellness goals.
Client Care Coordinator
Shannon is one of TNT’s mindset coaches and is looking forward to helping you flourish in your journey. Shannon’s first Master’s degree was in Education from the University of Central Florida. When Shannon looked forward and saw a community need, she went on to earn a Master’s in Marriage and Family Therapy to be able to provide comfort and healing to others. Shannon wants to help people in a variety of areas such as mindfulness, mindset, motivation, stress, grief and anxiety. Her therapeutic approach is to guide you in your true path of health, healing and fulfillment. Shannon provides a safe, compassionate environment to help you overcome your obstacles and move forward towards the person you want to be and the life you envision.
Mindset Coach
Pam comes to TNT with over 20 years experience in sales, 10 years in management, and 6 years in Home Health. It was in Home Health that Pam’s lifetime passion for helping people achieve their optimal health began. She was able to educate seniors on nutrition for their diagnosed health conditions like diabetes and cardiac disease. It was also in home health that Pam realized educating a client in nutrition had a far better impact prior to the diagnosed condition. With that knowledge, Pam pursued Health Coaching and is currently enrolled in Health Coach Institute where she will become a certified Health Coach. Pam is very involved with her church and her family. She has 4 children and 8 grandchildren. She enjoys camping and saltwater fishing with her husband.
Clinic Coordinator
After 25 years in the corporate world in New Jersey, Diane moved to FL to be closer to family.  She first joined TNT as a client before becoming an employee as a Clinic Coordinator.  Being a client helps her understand how the client’s thoughts and their struggles they may encounter going through the program.   While being at TNT, Diane has developed an interest in the natural healing of the body without prescription medications.  She is a mother of one dog, and in her spare time, she likes to stay busy doing an assortment of crafts and learning more about natural healing of the mind and body.
Clinic Coordinator
A graduate of the University of South Florida, Kristi has been in the medical marketing field for over 25 years and a part of the TNT team since 2011. She works to develop and market new programs and services for the clients of Total Nutrition. Her mantra is “It is better to prepare and prevent, then repair and repent — but sometimes we must do both!” Kristi is a Gator Mom, an ‘almost native’ to Lake County, and enjoys being out on the water in the many beautiful lakes in our community.
Director of Marketing
Brianne has had a strong interest in the medical field since high school and has recently  graduated with her A.A. and is currently working on her B.A. in Organizational Management.  She is planning on continuing her education by working towards her Masters in Healthcare Administration.  Brianne is proud to be called a ‘dog mom’ by Ivy.  She loves the outdoors and being on the water kayaking or fishing.  She has a passion for helping and caring for others.
Membership Coordinator
A Lake County native, Kayla has maintained an interest in the medical field since high school. She began her medical career drawing blood in hospitals and today has been drawing blood for three years. Her passion for helping people has led her to pursue a career as a nurse practitioner. She and her husband have a 2-year-old daughter and one child on the way. In her spare time, Kayla loves boating and riding on her four-wheeler.
Lab Tech
Andrea is a student at Lake Sumter State College. Currently in the process of completing her A.A. in Health Sciences.  Andrea plans to pursue a degree in nursing after completion of her AA   Her goal is to work in labor and delivery, NICU and PICU.  On her free time, Andrea likes to hang out with friends and family, anything outside and anything creative.  She likes to paint, stain and make projects for her home. Andrea is a  big sister to her brothers, one is 4 years younger than her and the other is 19 years younger. She loves the medical field and helping people feel great and become a better version of themselves. 
Director of First Impressions
Karen is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist specializing in individual, couples and family counseling. With over 18 years as a therapist and as a graduate of University of Central Florida with a Masters in Arts degree, specializing in Solution Focused Therapy, EMDR, and other modalities of fostering change. Karen has worked in the Lake County area for almost 5 years and prior to that she worked with a small treatment facility in Winter Park helping clients to recover from all types of addiction, depression, anxiety and many other disorders. Her therapeutic approach is to provide support and practical feedback to help TNT clients effectively address personal life challenges. She integrates complementary methodologies and techniques to offer a highly personalized approach tailored to each client. With compassion and understanding, she works with each individual to help them build on their strengths and attain the personal growth they are committed to accomplishing.
Licensed Mental Health Counselor/Mindset Coach
Angela Ugarte began her career in the health care field 22 years ago and has been a certified Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner since 2015. Over the past 3 years as a Nurse Practitioner, Angela has witnessed first hand the toll disease processes take on one’s health and vitality. Angela realized the limited impact she was able to have on disease prevention and outcomes at this latter stage of intervention. She then decided in order to be impactful in one’s life, she must focus on root cause identification and prevention, which is the foundation and goal of Functional Medicine. What Angela cherishes most in her role as a practitioner is working in collaboration with other health professionals, patients and caregivers to address complex health issues utilizing evidenced-based practice guidelines and cutting edge Functional Medicine philosophies.  Angela is actively seeking her certification by the American Academy of Anti-aging Medicine.
Nurse Practitioner
Sarah began her health journey as a client of TNT, after seeing amazing results while following the TNT lifestyle, she now has a passion to help others with their health and wellness.  Sarah has an Associate Degree and continuing education focused in Health Service Administration at the University of Central Florida.  She is a busy momma of 4 kids:  a 10-year-old girl, 8-year-old twin girls and a 6-year-old boy.  She and her husband have been married for 11 years and reside in Fruitland Park.  Her hobbies include spending time with her family and running half marathons.
Director of First Impressions
Heather comes to TNT with 14+ years of banking and management experience. Her expertise in finance, organizational skills, and ability to balance many projects at the same time makes her an integral part of the TNT team. Heather has been married for 9 years and is the mom of two boys, ages 6 and 1 1/2. Born and raised in Lake County, Heather is very involved in the community and in her downtime, she enjoys spending time with her family, going camping, and scalloping.
Practice Administrator
Pam comes to TNT with over 20 years experience in sales, 10 years in management, and 6 years in Home Health. It was in Home Health that Pam’s lifetime passion for helping people achieve their optimal health began. She was able to educate seniors on nutrition for their diagnosed health conditions like diabetes and cardiac disease. It was also in home health that Pam realized educating a client in nutrition had a far better impact prior to the diagnosed condition. With that knowledge, Pam pursued Health Coaching and is currently enrolled in Health Coach Institute where she will become a certified Health Coach. Pam is very involved with her church and her family. She has 4 children and 8 grandchildren. She enjoys camping and saltwater fishing with her husband.
Clinic Coordinator
Karen is a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist specializing in individual, couples and family counseling. With over 18 years as a therapist and as a graduate of University of Central Florida with a Masters in Arts degree, specializing in Solution Focused Therapy, EMDR, and other modalities of fostering change. Karen has worked in the Lake County area for almost 5 years and prior to that she worked with a small treatment facility in Winter Park helping clients to recover from all types of addiction, depression, anxiety and many other disorders. Her therapeutic approach is to provide support and practical feedback to help TNT clients effectively address personal life challenges. She integrates complementary methodologies and techniques to offer a highly personalized approach tailored to each client. With compassion and understanding, she works with each individual to help them build on their strengths and attain the personal growth they are committed to accomplishing.
Licensed Mental Health Counselor/Mindset Coach
A graduate of the University of South Florida, Kristi has been in the medical marketing field for over 25 years and a part of the TNT team since 2011. She works to develop and market new programs and services for the clients of Total Nutrition. Her mantra is “It is better to prepare and prevent, then repair and repent — but sometimes we must do both!” Kristi is a Gator Mom, an ‘almost native’ to Lake County, and enjoys being out on the water in the many beautiful lakes in our community.
DIRECTOR OF MARKETING
A Lake County native, Kayla has maintained an interest in the medical field since high school. She began her medical career drawing blood in hospitals and today has been drawing blood for three years. Her passion for helping people has led her to pursue a career as a nurse practitioner. She and her husband have a 2-year-old daughter and one child on the way. In her spare time, Kayla loves boating and riding on her four-wheeler.
Lab Tech
Sarah began her health journey as a client of TNT, after seeing amazing results while following the TNT lifestyle, she now has a passion to help others with their health and wellness.  Sarah has an Associate Degree and continuing education focused in Health Service Administration at the University of Central Florida.  She is a busy momma of 4 kids:  a 10-year-old girl, 8-year-old twin girls and a 6-year-old boy.  She and her husband have been married for 11 years and reside in Fruitland Park.  Her hobbies include spending time with her family and running half marathons.
Director of First Impressions
Audrey has worked in the wellness industry since 2015. After graduating in 2012 from the University of South Florida College of Business with a Bachelor’s in finance, Audrey began implementing changes in her lifestyle which had a powerful influence in her life. Through observing the true results of consistent mindful eating, exercise and stress management, she realized she wanted to shift her career to focus on health and wellness. While gaining experience in corporate wellness, Audrey began to pursue further education in Health Coaching, Yoga, Ayurveda and Nutrition.Audrey’s goal is to show you how easy and worth it can be to make your lifestyle a healthy lifestyle. Through learning strategies and techniques to fuel your journey, anything is possible! Audrey is a Certified Yoga Teacher and Health and Wellness Coach certified by the Health Coach Institute.
HWC, RYT, Life Coach
Christine has been with TNT since 2008 and has worn several different hats—receptionist, inventory specialist, lab technician, office manager, and patient care coordinator. Christine battled with high blood pressure and weight problems in the past and working at TNT has motivated and inspired her to help others reach their wellness goals.
Client Care Coordinator
Caiti is our Director of First Impressions, greeting everyone with an infectious smile. She is working on her BA in Organizational Management, married to her high school sweetheart, Brady and has two fur babies, Lucy and Gracie. Caiti says her inspiration for working at TNT is: “I believe in this company with every being in my soul. Starting here as a client first, employee later, I am able to relate to the exact feelings of our clients. Being able to encourage them also encourages me to keep strong on my life journey.”
SOCIAL MEDIA COORDINATOR
Sandra, known as Sandy to those around her, has always been interested in the area of skin care even as she pursued a career in education. After obtaining both a bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Nebraska, she would go on to teach high school history for nearly thirty years. Her successful career included two Fulbright international study programs, one in Pakistan and another in Zimbabwe and Malawi in Africa, which led her to write and implement an African history course. When Sandy’s husband was transferred to the Leesburg area thirteen years ago, she saw an opportunity to combine her love of teaching with her interest in skin care. Upon the certification as an aesthetician from the State of Florida, she trained with a renowned Cidesco Diplomat and founder of a worldwide skin care company on facial techniques and ingredient training. Working at national conventions with this company also increased Sandy’s experience in educating women on skin care issues. She has also taught aesthetics at Lake Technical School and the privately held Salon Professional Academy in Inverness. There is always an open door for clients at Total Nutrition and Therapeutics, and Sandy offers complimentary consultations for skin analysis and product selection.
LICENSED AESTHETICIAN
Shannon is one of TNT’s mindset coaches and is looking forward to helping you flourish in your journey. Shannon’s first Master’s degree was in Education from the University of Central Florida. When Shannon looked forward and saw a community need, she went on to earn a Master’s in Marriage and Family Therapy to be able to provide comfort and healing to others. Shannon wants to help people in a variety of areas such as mindfulness, mindset, motivation, stress, grief and anxiety. Her therapeutic approach is to guide you in your true path of health, healing and fulfillment. Shannon provides a safe, compassionate environment to help you overcome your obstacles and move forward towards the person you want to be and the life you envision.
MINDSET COACH
Brianne has had a strong interest in the medical field since high school and has recently  graduated with her A.A. and is currently working on her B.A. in Organizational Management.  She is planning on continuing her education by working towards her Masters in Healthcare Administration.  Brianne is proud to be called a ‘dog mom’ by Ivy.  She loves the outdoors and being on the water kayaking or fishing.  She has a passion for helping and caring for others.
RECEPTIONIST
Angela Ugarte began her career in the health care field 22 years ago and has been a certified Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner since 2015. Over the past 3 years as a Nurse Practitioner, Angela has witnessed first hand the toll disease processes take on one’s health and vitality. Angela realized the limited impact she was able to have on disease prevention and outcomes at this latter stage of intervention. She then decided in order to be impactful in one’s life, she must focus on root cause identification and prevention, which is the foundation and goal of Functional Medicine. What Angela cherishes most in her role as a practitioner is working in collaboration with other health professionals, patients and caregivers to address complex health issues utilizing evidenced-based practice guidelines and cutting edge Functional Medicine philosophies.  Angela is actively seeking her certification by the American Academy of Anti-aging Medicine.
NURSE PRACTITIONER
After 25 years in the corporate world in New Jersey, Diane moved to FL to be closer to family.  She first joined TNT as a client before becoming an employee as a Clinic Coordinator.  Being a client helps her understand how the client’s thoughts and their struggles they may encounter going through the program.   While being at TNT, Diane has developed an interest in the natural healing of the body without prescription medications.  She is a mother of one dog, and in her spare time, she likes to stay busy doing an assortment of crafts and learning more about natural healing of the mind and body.
Clinic Coordinator
Andrea is a student at Lake Sumter State College. Currently in the process of completing her A.A. in Health Sciences.  Andrea plans to pursue a degree in nursing after completion of her AA   Her goal is to work in labor and delivery, NICU and PICU.  On her free time, Andrea likes to hang out with friends and family, anything outside and anything creative.  She likes to paint, stain and make projects for her home. Andrea is a  big sister to her brothers, one is 4 years younger than her and the other is 19 years younger. She loves the medical field and helping people feel great and become a better version of themselves. 
Director of First Impressions

Total Nutrition and Therapeutics is based on Hippocrates’ wisdom of “let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food.” We have taken this concept and designed a journey for our clients to reach their optimal state of health. Young or old, struggling with disease or not, there are avenues you can take to function optimally.
The mission of TNT’s Team is to make an improved and measurable difference in our clients health by recognizing the individuality of each client. Each treatment plan, program, or service offered at TNT is customized according to those needs. Just like spokes inside a wheel, it is the center hole that makes the wheel move on its journey.
We created the TNT Wellness Wheel as a guide in designing your wellness plan with you. Here we outline 6 aspects to explore as we craft a balanced, fulfilled and optimal life for you. Welcome to your journey… click on each spoke to learn more.

 
We do not accept assignment from insurance companies.
First, in keeping with medical philosophy, our policy regarding insurance has always been that we choose to work directly with and for our clients, rather than indirectly through an insurance company. Therefore, we have never joined any HMOs, PPOs or other types of managed care. Furthermore, our team has opted out of the Medicare Program, thus they are only able to see Medicare-eligible clients who first elect to pay in full for all services rendered and subsequently sign a Medicare “Waiver” in which they agree not to seek reimbursement from Medicare for medical care received at our office.
We believe that each individual is the best person to decide whether or not he or she needs medical care, not a clerk working for an insurance company, someone who has neither seen nor evaluated the individual regarding his or her health questions.
Second, because we seek to prevent disease and promote wellness, many of our medical services are not covered by most insurance companies.
Finally, though we don’t accept assignment, if you have indemnity insurance coverage, then we will provide you with an insurance-ready receipt after receiving your payment that you can use to submit a claim to your insurance company, with any reimbursement from them being paid directly to you. Many plans will partially cover services such as labs and some medications. In addition, many plans will apply the evaluation costs and other services towards your deductible.
Based on our clinical studies, approximately 90% of the people who undertake our treatment recommendations achieve resolution of the symptoms for which they were seeking medical care.
The success of individuals who utilize our treatment regimen is largely dependent upon their commitment to restoring their health. We know that the clients who achieve the most dramatic gains in the resolution of their symptoms are the ones who follow the recommendations of our team, everything from hormone supplementation to eating recommendations, from lifestyle modifications to vitamin and mineral supplementation.
We have also found that when individuals maintain a positive and optimistic outlook on their eventual health success, they generally exceed both our and their own expectations. It is not uncommon for an individual to achieve resolution of their symptoms within a relatively short period of time, for instance, 3 months. It is far less common for an individual to notice no improvement in the same period of time, and rare that an individual would actually worsen.
Yes, despite our best efforts, occasionally we will see a client who is not a good match for our treatment regimen. This has to do primarily with attitude. When individuals do not believe they can get better, it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Secondarily, we make every attempt to educate client prior to their first visit regarding the scope and cost of our treatment regimen. Unfortunately, some individuals are unable to follow through with the financial commitment required over the long term to purchase the supplements and vitamins recommended for their program and discontinue this treatment regimen.
Finally, some individuals get conflicting advice and opinions from other medical professionals, family, or friends which leads them to discontinue treatment. Few medical doctors and even fewer lay individuals understand the intricate connection between nutrition, the immune system, and hormonal balance. As long as there remains confusion about these areas, there will continue to be some individuals who we are unable to help.

 
We do not accept assignment from insurance companies.
First, in keeping with medical philosophy, our policy regarding insurance has always been that we choose to work directly with and for our clients, rather than indirectly through an insurance company. Therefore, we have never joined any HMOs, PPOs or other types of managed care. Furthermore, our team has opted out of the Medicare Program, thus they are only able to see Medicare-eligible clients who first elect to pay in full for all services rendered and subsequently sign a Medicare “Waiver” in which they agree not to seek reimbursement from Medicare for medical care received at our office.
We believe that each individual is the best person to decide whether or not he or she needs medical care, not a clerk working for an insurance company, someone who has neither seen nor evaluated the individual regarding his or her health questions.
Second, because we seek to prevent disease and promote wellness, many of our medical services are not covered by most insurance companies.
Finally, though we don’t accept assignment, if you have indemnity insurance coverage, then we will provide you with an insurance-ready receipt after receiving your payment that you can use to submit a claim to your insurance company, with any reimbursement from them being paid directly to you. Many plans will partially cover services such as labs and some medications. In addition, many plans will apply the evaluation costs and other services towards your deductible.
Based on our clinical studies, approximately 90% of the people who undertake our treatment recommendations achieve resolution of the symptoms for which they were seeking medical care.
The success of individuals who utilize our treatment regimen is largely dependent upon their commitment to restoring their health. We know that the clients who achieve the most dramatic gains in the resolution of their symptoms are the ones who follow the recommendations of our team, everything from hormone supplementation to eating recommendations, from lifestyle modifications to vitamin and mineral supplementation.
We have also found that when individuals maintain a positive and optimistic outlook on their eventual health success, they generally exceed both our and their own expectations. It is not uncommon for an individual to achieve resolution of their symptoms within a relatively short period of time, for instance, 3 months. It is far less common for an individual to notice no improvement in the same period of time, and rare that an individual would actually worsen.
Yes, despite our best efforts, occasionally we will see a client who is not a good match for our treatment regimen. This has to do primarily with attitude. When individuals do not believe they can get better, it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Secondarily, we make every attempt to educate client prior to their first visit regarding the scope and cost of our treatment regimen. Unfortunately, some individuals are unable to follow through with the financial commitment required over the long term to purchase the supplements and vitamins recommended for their program and discontinue this treatment regimen.
Finally, some individuals get conflicting advice and opinions from other medical professionals, family, or friends which leads them to discontinue treatment. Few medical doctors and even fewer lay individuals understand the intricate connection between nutrition, the immune system, and hormonal balance. As long as there remains confusion about these areas, there will continue to be some individuals who we are unable to help.

 

 
p: (352) 259-5190f: (352) 259-4873e: info@tntfit4life.com
809 Hwy 466,Unit 202-CLady Lake, FL 32159
Mon/Tue: 8am–5pm
Wed: 10am–5pm
Thu: 8am–5pm
Fri: 8am-12pm
Sat/Sun : Closed
Mon/Tue: 7am–5pm
Wed: 10am–5pm
Thu: 7am–5pm
Fri: 7am-12pm
Sat/Sun : Closed

Fields marked with a “*” are required.

Your Name*



Your Phone*



Your Email Address



Are you an existing client of TNT?

Are you an existing client of TNT?


Yes


No




How did you hear about us?

How did you hear about us?N/ASpeaking EventPatient ReferralCompounding Pharmacy ReferralPhysician ReferralPersonal NetworkWeb SearchShopping Cart Self-RegistrationHHTVFacebook or other social mediaHealthy Living Magazine



Your Message*


p: (352) 259-5190f: (352) 259-4873e: info@tntfit4life.com
809 Hwy 466, Unit 202-CLady Lake, FL 32159
Mon/Tue: 8am–5pm
Wed: 10am–5pm
Thu: 8am–5pm
Fri: 8am-12pm
Sat/Sun : Closed
Mon/Tue: 7am–5pm
Wed: 10am–5pm
Thu: 7am–5pm
Fri: 7am-12pm
Sat/Sun : Closed

            In my early teens I was largely interested in three things: kissing boys, kissing girls, and punk rock. I loved punk music because it was bratty and it felt good, but I sometimes struggled to carve out a place for myself within the scene. I always seemed to wind up at shows dominated by straight men, and I got little affection in return from an art form I invested so much in. At 15, I was already jaded by the unspoken sexism of my local scene — like the hardcore shows where I’d routinely get hit hard in the face by guys three times my size, or the male friends who assumed that my gender meant that I couldn’t possibly understand punk in the same way as them. I longed for something that I could call mine. 
          

            So, just like most frustrated girls into aggressive music, I eventually discovered riot grrrl. In bands like Bratmobile and Bikini Kill I found a style of punk where the loudest voices belonged to women who talked openly about the type of sexism I’d encountered, and who countered it by prioritizing the safety and happiness of girls at their shows. In retrospect, the scene wasn’t perfect — the genre has been criticized for not doing enough to include women of color. But for me, hearing punk with an explicitly feminist message was revelatory, and I was ravenous for more. The brazen, personal-is-political style soon led me to discover U.S. queercore. 
          

            Queercore as I knew it then was hardcore punk with explicitly “queer” lyrics that engaged with gender and sexuality in non-normative ways. Bands like Limp Wrist and their invitations to Come out of the closet and into the pit! tapped into a part of myself that I was still trying to understand. But it wasn’t just queercore’s lyrical content that thrilled me; it was the showy vocal delivery and outrageous performance styles too. Between Black Fag, with their elaborate costumes and hardcore send-ups, and Pansy Division’s tongue-in-cheek kitsch aesthetic, I quietly developed a lust for camp in its many forms, which has stayed with me into adulthood. 
          
 "[Crush] PREJUDICE" pinback, c. 1988. #lgbthistory #lgbtherstory #lgbttheirstory #lgbtpride #queerhistorymatters #haveprideinhistory #nightnight
A photo posted by lgbt_history (@lgbt_history) on Jul 10, 2016 at 7:46pm PDT

            Camp and queerness are, of course, two different things. For me, camp is the spirit of queerness enacted: it’s all about outwardly revelling in that which feels somehow deviant from social norms. Sometimes camp has nothing to do with sexuality, and everything to do with how a performer constructs a relationship with their audience — female pop stars like Madonna and Katy Perry thrive on camp, but you wouldn’t call them queer.  
          

            In the definitive 1964 text Notes on “Camp,” Susan Sontag writes that “the essence of Camp is its love of the unnatural: of artifice and exaggeration.” Queer punk relishes playing up to this, often in performances which take social prejudices about queer people — for example, that they’re a threat to the nuclear family, or spend all their money on tiaras and glitter — and remake them as uglier, cuter, and more powerful than they were before. Punk rock in 2016, I am pleased to report, has camp in rhinestoned bucketloads.
          

            Perhaps due to the widespread galvanization of previously marginalized voices through social media and activist circles, voices in the punk scene feel prouder than ever. It’s happening on both sides of the Atlantic: in the U.S., bands gathering steam include New York garage duo PWR BTTM, and G.L.O.S.S. from Olympia, Washington, who play self-described badgalcore punk (and whose hard-as-nails Trans Day of Revenge EP is out now). But these queer voices feel especially loud in the U.K., where DIY venues that place huge premiums on community and inclusivity are springing up in a number of cities, and bands are responding to these new spaces which embrace them. In honor of that, here are some of the best bands currently being unapologetically queer, camp, or both, in British punk.
          



 Tonight! Bianca of Brussels on guest vox!! #guestspearance #bitchesbrew
Federal Law Review

Updated:  19 May 2017/Responsible Officer:  FLR Business Managers/Page Contact:  FLR Web Publishers 
+61 2 6125 5111
			The Australian National University, Canberra
			CRICOS Provider : 00120C
			ABN : 52 234 063 906

Crime
 Affairs Aur Badla Telugu Movie Download 720p 



Crime Affairs Aur Badla Telugu Movie Download 720p
 . Hd Movie Hindi Dubbed From Telugu movie Download in HD mp4, 3Gp, 720p Blu . download free movies Crime Affairs Aur Badla . 2013 ecmixvebat .. . download 720p movies Bumper Draw
 movie 5 720p telugu movie Apna Sapna Money Money 2 pdf free download the Say Yes To Love movie online 720p Crime Affairs Aur .. New Telugu Songs HD Movies Download, . Crime Affairs Aur Badla marathi full movie hd 1080p Love Exchange man 3 full movie in hindi
 hd 720p download free Chakkar CD .

. Online Free Download The . Extratorrent, 720p DVDRip . full movie 1080p free download Avatar telugu pdf free download 3 Crime Affairs Aur Badla full movie free .. Bar Bar Dekho Full Movie Dwld In 720, Download the latest . Crime Affairs Aur Badla Official
 Trailer Nee Selavadigi . (2016) Full Movie in 720p .

The Crime Affairs Aur Badla Full Movie Download 3gp. The Crime Affairs Aur Badla Full Movie Download 3gp . 2 Filmi Raasleela Full Movie In Hindi Hd 720p.. Crime Affairs Aur Badla marathi movie . Kya Yaaron telugu full movie 3gp download . kannada Yaaron Ki
 Baaraat movie mp3 songs download Hichki full movie 720p .. Full Movie Download in HD . Rum Pum Posshh Dubbed Movies In Hindi 720p . 623cf77009 . Crime Affairs Aur Badla 2 .

Life Ki Aisi Ki Taisi full movie 720p download movies .

Download Aiyyaa 2012 Hindi 720p HDTV Rip .. ntercensubswoodc's Blog. About Me; . Shobhna Seven Nights telugu movie 720p download . Crime Affairs Aur Badla Full Malayalam Movie Free Download.
90053462e7 
download Qaidi Band movie mp4 hindi
Moh Maya Money full movie hd dvdrip download
download Hate Story 3 movie
Maut malayalam dubbed movie download
10ml Love 2 full movie download mp4
malayalam movie free download Mere Haule Dost
Wajah Tum Ho part 2 in hindi full movie download
The Coal Mafiaa 2015 full movie hd download
Akkad Bakkad Bam Be Bo full movie in hindi download 3gp movie
the movie Hum Hai Teen Khurafaati

Everybody can create a website, it's easy.
Die Seite kann nicht angezeigt werden, weil:
Bitte eine der folgenden Seiten ausprobieren:


Startseite


Bei Problemen ist der Administrator dieser Website zuständig.
Sie müssen sich eine Frage stellen: Sind Sie glücklich?



Log in to your Moscow Times account:


A recent report from NATO asks a frightening question "Could the Islamic State go nuclear"? It's not an idle question, as U.S. President Barack Obama described nuclear terrorism as "the single biggest threat to U.S. security." 
 To address this risk, the U.S. is hosting a major nuclear security summit from March 31 to April 1 in Washington, D.C. There is one major shortcoming with the summit though: Russia — one of the world's two dominant nuclear powers — plans to boycott it. This decision represents the collapse of the once-thriving nuclear security cooperation between Washington and Moscow — one which both sides bear responsibility for. 
 In the early 1990s Washington discovered that poverty and chaos caused frightening security defects throughout the vast Russian nuclear complex. Unpaid guards at nuclear sites were frequently absent. Insiders at Russian nuclear weapons plants tried to steal and sell nuclear materials on the black market. A senior White House science adviser even discovered enough highly enriched uranium (HEU) for several nuclear bombs sitting unguarded in a Moscow Institute. 
 The U.S. countered this threat by spending billions of dollars under the Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program helping Russia secure its nuclear materials and facilities. From the building of a massive storage facility for 25,000 kilograms of fissile materials in Chelyabinsk, Russia to the transfer of 58,000 former Soviet nuclear weapon scientists to civilian programs, CTR was arguably the most successful American foreign aid program since the Marshall Plan. 
 Following the conclusion of the CTR program, in September 2013 the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Russia's state-owned nuclear company Rosatom signed a comprehensive nuclear cooperation agreement. This agreement provided for projects in areas ranging from nuclear non-proliferation and the peaceful international use of nuclear power to extensive access for scientists to each side's most sensitive facilities and nuclear laboratories — a critical trust-building initiative. 
 In response to Russia's annexation of Crimea however, DOE banned Russian scientists from visiting any of its nuclear labs while simultaneously banning U.S. scientists from visiting Russia. The 2015 budget also banned most funding for nuclear nonproliferation activities and assistance in Russia and remains in effect. 
 Russia then retaliated by announcing it would no longer accept American aid to secure its weapons-grade nuclear materials. As a result, such work as joint security projects at 18 civilian facilities housing weapons material to security upgrades at Russia's seven nuclear "closed cities" were cancelled. Bi-lateral Russian-American nuclear security cooperation is now dead. 
 As a recent study from the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard notes, Russian has made great progress in improving its nuclear security over the last 20 years. The physical security around its facilities are largely modernized; Russian nuclear personnel are paid on time; new nuclear safety regulations exist; and the vast number of Russian nuclear sites have been trimmed. 
 Nevertheless, real problems remain. For example, no requirement exists for Russian nuclear facilities to compare the amount of nuclear materials produced with the materials currently in existence to ensure the numbers match up. Indeed, some facilities possess thousands of canisters of HEU or plutonium with paper records going back decades, but no one has ever went back to measure each canister to be sure the material is still there. 
 Insider threats due to Russia's endemic corruption continue to exist as well. The director of one of Russia's largest plutonium and HEU processing facilities and two of his deputies were arrested or corruption in a multi-million scheme, while a Russian general in command of a nuclear weapon storage site was fired due to massive corruption. A colonel in the Russian Interior Ministry in charge of nuclear security inspections was also arrested for soliciting bribes to overlook security violations. 
 Most recently, an Associated Press investigation reported four separate incidents where Moldovan police broke up smuggling attempts involving nuclear materials linked to Russian organized crime — one of which involved an attempt by a Russian gang to sell nuclear material to the Islamic State. Furthermore, forensic analysis revealed the materials seized were produced in the early 1990s in a Russian nuclear facility in the Ural Mountains. This raises a frightening question: What else has gone missing from Russian nuclear facilities since the break-up of the Soviet Union that we are unaware of? 
 The extremist connection is noteworthy. Osama bin Laden considered nuclear terrorism targeting American civilians to be a legitimate action, and the Islamic State has seized enough nuclear materials from research centers, hospitals and an oil facility in Iraq to construct a dirty bomb. Recent reports indicate that Islamic extremism has spread to the Urals, where a number of Russian nuclear facilities are located. With President Vladimir Putin acknowledging that at least 5,000-7,000 people from Russia and other former Soviet states joined the Islamic State, it's not impossible to imagine Islamic State sympathizers getting their hands on Russian nuclear materials. 
 To limit the threat of nuclear terrorism, the U.S. must take three steps to jumpstart U.S.-Russian nuclear security cooperation. While the U.S. should keep its Russian sanctions in place until Russia withdraws its troops from Ukraine and implements the Minsk Agreement, American national interests require that we separate nuclear security and the crisis in Ukraine. 
 First, DOE should propose to its counterparts within Rosatom that the September 2013 agreement between the two sides be reactivated, resuming the extensive scientist-to-scientist collaboration envisioned in the original agreement. 
 While this would require a U.S. "climb down" from its April freeze of the DOE-Rosatom agreement, as former Los Alamos director Siegfried Hecker noted, nuclear security ultimately depends on personal relationships between Russian and American scientists. 
 A two year information gap about Russian nuclear security now exists. With sanctions and collapsing oil prices squeezing Russian government budgets, analysts now question Russia's ability to maintain security systems previously funded by the U.S. in the 1990s and 2000s. Given that a 2013 Department of Defense report to Congress noted that the "issue of how to sustain nuclear security upgrades at Russian nuclear sites has not yet been resolved" these concerns are legitimate. 
 Second, the U.S. should understand that the narrative from the 1990s whereby the U.S. is a donor and Russia is an aid recipient is no longer acceptable in Moscow. U.S. Russian nuclear cooperation must therefore be reframed as a partnership of equals, with both sides contributing to the conversation. Some ways to do this include: 
 • Workshops on best practices in fissile materials accounting;
 • Comprehensive site visits to each side's key laboratories and enrichment sites to compare security strategies;
 • Joint work in other countries — Moscow, for example, is a key partner in removing HEU from Russian-supplied reactors in third countries. This might also involve joint U.S.-Russian technical assistance projects to assist other countries to improve their nuclear security;
 • Mutual vulnerability assessments with each side providing critical reviews to the other;
 • Establish a joint intelligence task force on centered around preventing nuclear smuggling and terrorism. 
 These activities require providing the Russians greater access to American nuclear facilities, but with the reciprocal benefit that American experts would gain access to Russian facilities. 
 Third, the Obama administration demand Congress fully fund U.S.-Russian nuclear security cooperation. The administration is proposing to spend $348 billion upgrading the U.S. nuclear arsenal over the next ten years — isn't it worth it spending a tiny fraction of that money to prevent nuclear terrorism? While Russia hawks may wonder why the U.S. would spend money to assist an adversary, Washington does not help Russia as a favor to Moscow, but because preventing nuclear terrorism remains a core American national security interest. 
 All of these steps have one thing in common: they require that we delink nuclear security cooperation with Moscow from U.S.-Russian geopolitical tensions. The consequences from nuclear terrorism are so dire that to do otherwise is foolhardy. 
Josh Cohen is a former USAID project officer involved in managing economic reform projects in the former Soviet Union. He contributes to a number of foreign policy-focused media outlets and tweets at @jkc_in_dc
See also:
U.S. To Offer Russia Extension To Nuclear Disarmament Treaty — Reports
NATO Risks Nuclear War with Russia, Retired General Warns
Putin: Obama 'Personally' Invited Russian President to Nuclear Summit
Piratenpartei Braunschweig
Politik etc.
Piratenpartei Braunschweig
Piratenpartei Braunschweig
Gophernutzer finden diese Website auch hier.
Unser europäisches Wahlprogramm 2019 findet ihr hier.
Piraten sind angetreten, um den Menschen zu mehr Mitbestimmungsrecht zu verhelfen. Dazu ist es notwendig, das Ohr ganz nah am Bürger und seinen Ideen zu haben. Wir nehmen das Wort Volksvertreter wörtlich und geben Dir die Möglichkeit, Deine Ideen in Dein Parlament zu bringen.
mögliche Verwendungszwecke:
J’ai récemment conseillé à une cliente de planifier ses activités. Dans quel but ? De prendre soin de soi et de se faire plaisir.Voici un article pour vous aider à prendre ainsi soin de vous, ce que préconisent certaines thérapies comportementales.
Lire la suitePrendre chaque jour soin de soi








Japanese cryptocurrency exchange Zaif announced that the transfer of the business from Tech Bureau to Fisco Digital Asset Group (FDAG) will become effective on April 22, and that normal activity will resume on the next day. Cointelegraph Japan reported on the developments on April 20.
Bitcoin (BTC), bitcoin cash (BCH), and monacoin (MONA) were stolen from the exchange in a hack in September last year, resulting in total losses of cryptocurrencies worth 6.7 billion yen (around $59.8 million). With the acquisition, which is a part of the user compensation plan, FDAG provided financial support of 5 billion yen (over $44.6 million) to Tech Bureau and acquired a majority of the company’s shares.
As Cointelegraph reported in October 2018, the sale of the exchange is part of the plan to compensate the users who lost Monacoin in the hack after the sale of the business. The users will be repaid 40% in fiat currency and 60% in crypto. The rate of compensation will be 144.548 yen ($1.28) per MONA which will become available for withdrawal on April 23.
In mid-March, an 18-year-old hacker was referred to Japanese prosecutors for stealing cryptocurrency after allegedly breaching Monappy, a digital wallet which can be installed on a smartphone, and stealing 15 million yen (over $134,000) of cryptocurrency.
The views and opinions expressed here are solely those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of Cointelegraph.com. Every investment and trading move involves risk, you should conduct your own research when making a decision.
The market data is provided by the HitBTC exchange.
An extended downtrend usually goes through an accumulation phase before starting a new uptrend. Digital assets fund Adamant Capital believes that the crypto markets are currently going through that phase.
Currently, about 3% of American retirees have invested in Bitcoin, according to a recent survey. 56.7% of the retirees have heard of Bitcoin, but are reluctant to invest. This might be due to the long and crushing bear market. When the markets start rising and enter a bull phase, many of these are likely to enter the markets. Clarity on regulations from the government will also result in greater participation. Andrew Yang — a United States Democratic presidential candidate for the 2020 elections — is in favor of implementing clear regulations on digital assets.
The Chinese President Xi Jinping is bullish on the prospects of the blockchain technology for the future. Though cryptocurrency trading is banned in China, the ruling party sees the renminbi as a cryptocurrency in about 20 years, according to Donald Tapscott, executive chairman of the Blockchain Research Institute. However, how much support a centralized cryptocurrency launched by a central bank will receive in the community is yet to be seen.
Tezos (XTZ) was the best performer among the major cryptocurrencies in the past seven days. The market participants cheered the comments by French finance minister Bruno Le Maire on Tezos and the blockchain industry. In an interview to French magazine Capital, the minister said that France is looking to invest over $4.5 billion euros in innovative industries, including blockchain, in the next five years. Is Tezos worth a buy even now or will it enter a correction? Let’s find out.

The XTZ/USD pair has seen a strong pullback from the lows. From a low of $0.33, it has risen to the current levels, which is a rise of over 300%.
It is presently trying to break out of the overhead resistance of $1.295480, but is facing resistance close to the 50-week SMA. The 20-week SMA has started to slope up and the RSI has jumped into the positive territory. This suggests that the bulls have the upper hand.
We anticipate a stiff resistance between the 50-week SMA and $1.85. After the sharp recovery from the lows, we anticipate a minor correction or consolidation. However, if the momentum pushes the price above $1.85, the rally can reach $2.75 and above it to $4.20.
After a sharp run-up, it is always better to wait and enter on a consolidation or a minor dip.
Analysis by the Binance research team concluded that the crypto winter might be coming to an end. We believe the resurgence is being led by binance coin (BNB), which is the best performer among major cryptocurrencies and might become the first to scale the highs made during the bull run in January of last year.
Crypto exchange Binance earned $78 million in profits in Q1 2019, a growth of 66% over the comparable quarter of the previous year. Binance CFO Wei Zhou said that the profits were boosted by the surge in OTC trades. The exchange has launched its mainnet and plans to execute the swap of binance coin on April 23. Also this week, Binance has started a campaign to support the reconstruction of the Notre Dame Cathedral.

The BNB/USD pair is on fire: it is close to breaking the previous high of $26.4732350 made in early January of 2018. This is a major sentiment booster as it gives confidence to the traders that the best is yet to come for the cryptocurrencies with strong fundamentals.
As the pair moved up, it picked up momentum. While this is a bullish sign, it has also pushed the weekly RSI into deeply overbought zone. This increases the possibility of a minor correction or consolidation; however, it is difficult to time it. When the momentum is strong, overbought markets can become even more overbought.
While the investors holding the cryptocurrency can stay put with an appropriate stop loss, it might be dicey to take a new position at the current levels, as the risk to reward ratio is not attractive.
Bitcoin cash (BCH) was the main beneficiary of bitcoin SV’s delisting by major crypto exchanges this week. In another move, SBI Holdings has conversely said that it will delist bitcoin cash from its exchange in June 2019. The company has stated that the decision to delist bitcoin cash was premeditated, and had nothing to do with its partnership with nChain (whose chief scientist, Craig Wright, is the founder of BSV).

The BCH/USD pair had surged the week before. After the sharp move, the previous week saw mild correction. This week, the pair is again attempting to break out of the overhead resistance at $363.30.
If successful, it can move up to $451.32. The 50-week SMA is close to this level; hence, this might act as a resistance. But if the bulls breakout of this resistance zone, a rally to $600 can be on the cards.
Meanwhile, the 20-week EMA is flat and the RSI is close to the center. This points to a consolidation for a few more weeks. However, if the bears sink the digital currency below the support zone of $255 and the 20-week EMA, a fall to $166.25 is probable.
Cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck has added ether (ETH) to its over-the-counter offering. Ethereum core developers are debating whether more frequent and smaller hard forks are better than the larger and less frequent hard forks. The decentralized platform needs to be on its toes to ward off the increasing competition.

The ETH/USD pair is facing a stiff tussle between the bears and the bulls at the critical $167.32 level. While the bulls scaled this level in the week before, completing an ascending triangle pattern, they could not build up on the gains.
Last week, the bears attempted to sink the pair back into the triangle. This week, the bulls are again trying to keep the price above $167.32.
If the bulls succeed in pushing the price above $187.98, the digital currency can rally to its target objective of $251.64. On the other hand, a breakdown of $167.32 and the 20-week EMA will turn the tables in favor of the bears. The next couple of weeks are critical for the cryptocurrency, as it will determine the next directional move.
Monero (XMR) celebrated its fifth anniversary this week with a slew of events. Can the fifth best performer of the past week better its performance in the coming weeks? Let’s find out.

The XMR/USD pair has been sustaining above the breakout level of $60.147 and the 20-week EMA for the past two weeks. This is a positive sign and it increases the possibility of a breakout above $81.
If the bulls sustain the price above $81, it can gradually move up to $114.840, and above it to $128.650. The medium-term target is $150.
On the other hand, if the price fails to scale above the overhead resistance, it can remain range bound between $60.147 and $81 for a few weeks. The pair will weaken if the bears sink the price below $60.147.
The market data is provided by the HitBTC exchange. Charts for analysis are provided by TradingView.
Noelle Acheson is a veteran of company analysis and a member of CoinDesk’s product team.
The following article originally appeared in Institutional Crypto by CoinDesk, a free newsletter for the institutional market with news and views on crypto infrastructure delivered every Tuesday. Sign up at the link below. 
Ever since Emperor Vespasian held up a gold coin that came from taxing urine and pointed out that it smelt just as clean as others, the separation of money from its origin has been on regulators’ minds.
The accelerating flows of digital money around the world, as well as the rising threat of terror attacks and powerful crime cartels, have given the dialogue an added urgency and resulted in a flurry of rules and guidelines from national governments and supra-national organizations.
Obviously, these were, at some stage, going to affect cryptocurrencies given the concern of many authorities that bypassing third parties would make it much harder to stem the flows of illicit funds.
Exhibit A: AMLD5, a Europe-wide law that will end up affecting crypto businesses around the world. Recent signs from other jurisdictions also point to increased attention around this issue. As usual with encroaching compliance regulation, the short-term pain in terms of higher costs and lower privacy is a concern, and there are signs that regulators still don’t fully understand how the technology works.
But longer-term, even the most onerous requirements will end up evolving and are likely to stimulate sector development in unexpected ways.
(*pardon the Game of Thrones quotes, I couldn’t resist)
First, some background.
In June of 2018, the European Parliament and Council published an update to the bloc’s anti-money laundering (AML) directive. Known as AMLD5, the deadline for its implementation is January 2020, less than a year away.
Under the new rules, all crypto exchanges and wallet custodians operating in Europe will have to implement strict know-your-customer (KYC) onboarding procedures and will need to register with local authorities. They will also be required to monitor transactions and to report suspicious activity to the relevant bodies.
Furthermore, national authorities, including tax collectors, will be able to obtain crypto user information from the relevant exchanges.
The concern about illicit transfers is not just limited to Europe. Last week US-based crypto exchange Bittrex was denied a BitLicense due to KYC and AML shortfalls in its onboarding procedures (an assessment the exchange rejects).
On a broader scale, in December of last year, leaders from the G20 nations reiterated their pledge to develop comprehensive AML rules for cryptoassets. And the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an inter-governmental body set up in 1989 to tackle money laundering, is due to publish guidelines and enforcement expectations for crypto exchanges around the world by June of this year.
A draft of the FATF proposals was released in February. In a comment published last week, cryptoanalytics firm Chainalysis responded to this draft, pointing out that it is not always possible to know the beneficiary’s details, and in most instances an exchange does even not know if the destination is an exchange wallet or a personal one.
The EU Commission, on the other hand, seems to be aware of this and has been mandated to present, by early 2022, a further set of amendment proposals concerning self-reporting by virtual currency owners, and the maintaining by member states of central databases with users’ identities and wallet addresses. You can imagine the pushback that this will get.
Some of the more vocal objections to the encroaching oversight point out that it defeats the purpose of cryptocurrencies, which were designed to circumvent control by central authorities and avoid the risk of censorship.
Others have expressed concern that these rules will divert transactions to the less transparent crypto-to-crypto and/or decentralized exchanges that fall outside the scope of AMLD5.
And there’s the business risk, too: Operating expenses are a worry for any project, and the growing burden of reporting requirements could slow down the growth and professionalization of market infrastructure.
Yet while the concerns are valid, the intensifying AML attention is more likely to help rather than harm the sector.
First, the AMLD5 enshrines in law what is probably the first “official” definition of virtual currency: “a digital representation of value that is not issued or guaranteed by a central bank or a public authority, is not necessarily attached to a legally established currency and does not possess a legal status of currency or money, but is accepted by natural or legal persons as a means of exchange and which can be transferred, stored and traded electronically.”
The use of the phrase “means of exchange” could end up giving entrepreneurs and lawyers support from which to construct further innovation, and regulators a base from which to develop more detailed definitions.
Another plus is the likely increase in banks’ confidence when dealing with crypto exchanges. One of the main reasons virtual currency businesses have such a hard time getting bank accounts is the financial institutions’ concern over money laundering allegations. Remove those, and the greater operational ease that comes with having access to a banking network is likely to encourage further infrastructure growth and development. This in turn could enhance the sector’s reputation and liquidity, as well as make market prices less volatile.
It could also pave the way for eventual custody by traditional financial institutions of cryptocurrencies themselves, which would further enhance demand for cryptocurrencies for both transactional and investment purposes.
A growth in the liquidity of cryptocurrencies will boost more than their price: It will also boost interest in and feasibility of using the underlying technology for tracking purposes.
As Chainalysis pointed out in its FATF comment, an effective use of blockchain technology would make it much harder to launder money using cryptocurrencies than digital fiat money, and would enable market participants to simultaneously collaborate with law enforcement while complying with trends in privacy legislation.
Sharing a wallet address with market participants in other jurisdictions is not the same as sharing personally identifying information and does not trigger infringements of Europe’s stringent privacy laws. This would make it easier for law enforcement to monitor and investigate suspicious activity, while protecting user privacy until a determination is made that more information is needed.
What’s more, the transaction history preserved on public blockchains gives greater credibility to data integrity and protects evidence from manipulation or human error. With blockchain-based assets, prosecutors could have access to a much deeper data trail than with fiat currencies. And a long enough time horizon, combined with sophisticated analytics, should provide a more holistic view of patterns, enabling enforcement officials to develop preemptive strategies that could further reduce the cost burden of the surveillance.
With this, we may even enter a world in which regulators see cryptocurrencies as the “cleaner” option. This could encourage them to recommend their adoption for money transfers across borders, instead of focusing on erecting barriers to their use. This could also lead to more official support for innovation around money, even from central banks, which in turn would accelerate the transformation of the banking industry as we know it.
Indeed, what is seen by many as crypto’s greatest threat could end up being its greatest opportunity.
Interested in receiving a weekly email with updates on market infrastructure, regulation and institutional crypto products? Sign up for our free Institutional Crypto newsletter here. 
Money boats image via Shutterstock
https://computerepairlkn.com

Since July, Thailand and its Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have voiced their intent to legalize the local initial coin offering (ICO) market and open it to startups.
On Dec. 1, 2018, however, Cointelegraph reported that the Thai SEC declared Thai-related security token offerings (STOs) in international markets to be illegal and said that it will take appropriate legal action against companies that attempt to distribute STOs created in Thailand to overseas markets.
Tipsuda Thavaramara, the deputy secretary of the Thai SEC, reportedly said:
“The regulator will have to consider how to deal with STOs for issues such as share ownership, voting rights and dividend. At the moment, we have not decided whether STOs fall under the SEC Act or the Digital Asset Act, but it depends on the STO’s conditions and the details in its white paper.”
The government’s initial stance toward the approval of STOs in the local market contradicted the Thai SEC’s plans to legalize ICOs and allow companies to raise capital from investors in the public market.
This month, the Thai SEC reportedly approved the launch of the country’s first ICO portal, with plans to approve an ICO project in the near future.
Archari Suppiroj, the director of the fintech department at the SEC, said that the launch of the ICO portal could lead to the approval of STOs in the local market:
“The next step is for an issuer to offer security tokens in the primary market.”
Andreessen Horowitz, billionaire investor Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund and several more major venture capital firms have funded security token projects throughout the past year, betting largely on the value security tokens with high liquidity and fungibility can bring.
Josh Stein, the CEO of Harbor, which raised $28 million from Andreessen Horowitz, said that no major regulators and government agencies that the company has engaged in discussions with in the past several months have expressed a negative sentiment toward well-structured security tokens.
He said that, primarily because STOs are strictly regulated investment vehicles that are fully compliant with local regulations, governments are generally open toward regulating the security token market.
Placing an emphasis on the absence of legal boundaries between STOs and global financial regulations, Stein said:
“There’s a misconception that there’s a regulatory problem or that somehow the regulations need to change. They don’t. You need to comply with rules around the world. If the compliance doesn’t work, nothing else can happen. We have talked with a number of regulators in the U.S. and around the world. No one has given us negative feedback and no one has signed off on it, but our fundamental opinion is that we’re complying with the rules.”
Assets that are represented by STOs are real-world assets that are tangible and can be approved by the authorities. Security tokens merely offer a cryptographic representation and a proof of ownership, which, as a result, increase the liquidity and fungibility of the physical asset.
Traditional assets, like properties and artwork, can be represented by tokens using a cryptographically encrypted blockchain network, allowing investors to obtain ownership of certain assets by purchasing tokens.
Security tokens enable investors to purchase a portion of an asset without having the pressure of wholly acquiring it. One of the major reasons cryptocurrencies have appealed to millennials since early 2017 is the ability for young investors to invest a small amount in digital assets. With real estate and many other physical assets, it is not possible to do so.

Even when security tokens are utilized in complex deals, it is possible for the issuer to freeze trading on a certain security token asset upon the request of the government and move back to paper. While it leads to administrative expenses and reputational exposure, the government and the security token operator can cooperate to create a physical version of the security token if an issue were to arise.
With no major regulatory boundaries and with significant benefits in liquidity, fungibility and transportability, investors that have been involved in the traditional financial sector — like Hong Joon-ki, the CEO of over-the-counter (OTC) cryptocurrency exchange Cumberland Korea — have said that, eventually, various assets like artwork, real estate, sports teams and hedge funds will be tokenized:
“The global cryptocurrency sector will rapidly change to security tokens at an exponential rate. Venture funds, hedge funds, sports teams, artworks, real estate, and a variety of real world assets will be tokenized on the blockchain. Currently, the majority of financial institutions entering the cryptocurrency sector with the backing of institutional investors are driven by the potential of tokenized assets and security tokens. These institutions are expanding their operations rapidly by working with cryptocurrency researchers and blockchain technology startups.”
Despite the shifting trend toward security tokens and the rising interest in tokenized assets in the global market, the current regulatory landscape of Thailand’s cryptocurrency market was nowhere close to permitting the distribution of regulated security tokens less than three months ago.
In July, the Thai SEC officially legalized registered ICOs, allowing companies to run token sales with guidance from the SEC. At the time, the Bangkok Post reported:
“The SEC will allow seven cryptocurrencies, used for initial coin offerings (ICOs), to be traded as trading pairs. They are bitcoin, ethereum, bitcoin cash, ethereum classic, litecoin, ripple, and stellar. All market participants, including ICO issuers, digital exchanges, brokers and dealers involved with digital asset transactions, are required to register with the SEC within 90 days of the effective date. […] The participants must also receive the Finance Ministry’s approval to conduct digital asset business.”
The implementation of a new policy regarding the legalization of regulated and registered ICO projects portrayed the willingness of the Thai government to facilitate the growth of local cryptocurrency startups, as long as their operations are in compliance with existing regulations.
More importantly, the decision of the Thailand SEC to facilitate the needs of blockchain projects to conduct ICOs showed the intent of the government to help lay the groundwork for ICO and STO projects in the future.
Conceptually, security tokens are similar to registered ICOs in the sense that both are cryptographically encrypted assets that operate under the guidance of the Thai SEC, given that only registered companies that meet the SEC’s criteria can run a token sale and that the sale is limited to accredited investors.
The open-minded approach toward ICO by the Thai government may translate to optimism toward security tokens, particularly because security tokens pose less threats to investors in the public market and to the government, since the authorities can exercise relatively strong control over security tokens.
Based on the policies the Thai government has implemented since early 2018, the roadmap of the government seems to be to address every major problem from the ground up, beginning with the basics.
In May, the Thai authorities waived a 7% taxation rate for individual cryptocurrency investors, relieving pressure from investors who invest through local digital asset trading platforms. In the following month, the Thai SEC released a framework for legalizing registered ICOs. Then, in August, the government approved seven cryptocurrency companies to operate legally in the country, officially giving them the ability to sustain their operations without facing banking- and regulation-related issues.
If the government determines that basic issues in the cryptocurrency exchange market, ICO market, and taxation are addressed and sufficient investor protection is imposed, then the government could shift its attention to emerging sectors within the broader cryptocurrency space, including security tokens.
Overall, Thailand is continuing to see some progress and changes in the local market in terms of regulation, adoption and growth. Merely eight months ago, ICOs were completely banned in Thailand, registered or not.
With the G-20’s lead on cryptocurrency regulation, Thailand and other regions in Asia are expected to regulate their respective digital asset markets with stricter policies, and as a result, the Thai government could eventually get to security tokens in the long term.

But, in the near term, it is fairly unlikely that the Thai government will allow retail investors or individual investors to be involved in security tokens as of yet, especially during a period in which the United States, Japan and South Korea have yet to make any major move to adopt security tokens.
On Dec. 1, less than 24 hours after Thailand issued a warning against security tokens, China imposed a blanket ban on security token offerings.
Huo Xuewen, chief of Beijing’s Municipal Bureau of Finance, said in a roughly translated statement:
“The ICO model is being left behind for a new concept called STO. I want to issue a warning to anyone considering running an STO in Beijing. Don’t do it in Beijing — it is illegal. You can only engage in such activities with approval from the government. You will be kicked out if you do it.”
Seven days following the release of Xuewen’s statement, the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) officially imposed a blanket ban on security tokens.
At an internet finance forum in Beijing, Pang Gongsheng, the deputy governor at PBoC, explicitly described that the act of offering security tokens is illegal under existing laws in China. A rough translation of Pang’s statement reads:
“The STO business that has surfaced recently is still essentially an illegal financial activity in China. […] Virtual money has become an accomplice to all kinds of illegal and criminal activities.”
China has firmly opposed security tokens because of the country’s strict capital controls and laws that make it difficult for foreign investors to purchase properties in the country. The purpose of a security token is to increase the fungibility and transportability of a physical asset. Only China-based companies operated by Chinese individuals can purchase properties, and as such, security tokens in China offer less benefits.
Although foreigners are not allowed to purchase land in Thailand, they are allowed to purchase apartments and condominiums, and obtain long leases for land.
For a foreign citizen to purchase a condominium in Thailand, regardless of the value of the property, minimal paperwork is needed to prove the investor’s identity.
For such deals, security tokens could simplify the process of settling payments and proving ownership through a digital piece of evidence that can also exist in a physical form.
Throughout 2018, Thailand has not been as aggressive as other major economies in Asia — such as Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea — in appealing to cryptocurrency startups and bringing in talent for its blockchain sector. With practical regulatory frameworks in place and by allowing the creation of a new industry in security tokens, Thailand could obtain an edge over the rest of the cryptocurrency sector in Asia.
For now, Thailand and its financial authorities may not be ready to properly legalize the distribution of tokenized assets — at least to foreigners — and based on various factors, security token offerings will likely remain restricted in the near term. But, in the long term, Thailand may move toward supporting STOs, as hinted by Thai SEC Director Archari Suppiroj.
But, as Cointelegraph reported on April 5, the Thai government supported a blockchain-based remittance service provider, expressing its intention on facilitating the growth of blockchain- and cryptocurrency-related businesses.

by BitcoinPrice in Home Page 
0 


Copyright © 2019 | MH Magazine WordPress Theme by MH Themes 

The requested URL /loja-gran-minga-en-fuentes-de-agua-se-realizara-en-loja/ was not found on this server.
Additionally, a 404 Not Found
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
 (11) 96421-9188
(11) 96421-9188
Gostou? compartilhe!
O pilates melhora a flexibilidade, postura, fortalecimento muscular, alongamento e mobilidade. Para dar aulas ou atendimento de pilates é necessário ser fisioterapeuta e fazer o curso de formação de pilates.
Conheça alguns assuntos abordados no curso de pilates:
O pilates melhora a flexibilidade, postura, fortalecimento muscular, alongamento e mobilidade. Para dar aulas ou atendimento de pilates é necessário ser fisioterapeuta e fazer o curso de formação de pilates.
Procurando cursos de pilates em SP no Jaraguá? Encontre a solução que você precisa contando com os serviços da Salute Pilates, são opções diversas disponibilizadas, como curso de pilates para fisioterapeutas, curso de pilates clínico e certificação internacional de pilates. Oferecemos também a opção de certificado, não deixe de entrar em contato para saber mais.

Nome:  

Email:  

Telefone:  


Mensagem:  

Estamos enviando, nossos dados para contato
Salute Pilates 
Email: contato@salutepilates.com.br
Endereço: 
Alameda Joaquim Eugênio de Lima, 696, 18º Andar        
        Jardim Paulista         - São Paulo - SP CEP: 01403-000
(11) 96421-9188

Nome:  

Email:  

Telefone:  

Mensagem:  

Endereço: Alameda Joaquim Eugênio de Lima, 696, 18º Andar             
             - Jardim Paulista             - São Paulo - SPCEP: 01403-000
Email: contato@salutepilates.com.br
(11) 96421-9188

A 47-year-old man was arrested Monday in connection with a murder in San Francisco’s McLaren Park nearly three decades ago after a DNA hit linked him to the crime, police and prosecutors said today.
William Payne, of San Francisco, is accused of strangling 41-year-old Nikolaus Crumbley, who was found dead at the intersection of John Shelley Drive and Mansell Street in the park on Nov. 16, 1983, prosecutors said.
Payne, who was a teenager at the time of the crime, made his initial appearance in San Francisco Superior Court this afternoon to face the murder charge, but his arraignment was continued to Thursday morning. 
He is being represented by the public defender’s office, but his attorney was not immediately available for comment on the case.
Crumbley, a resident of Killeen, Texas, had been staying in San Francisco and was seen prior to his death with another man at a local hotel, according to the arrest warrant affidavit for Payne.
He was found early the morning of Nov. 16, 1983, with his pants and underwear pulled down below his knees.
A swab of Crumbley’s rectum taken during his autopsy was tested by the San Francisco crime lab in 2004. The test found semen that was matched to Payne in the state Department of Justice’s DNA database in 2009, according to the affidavit.
A $5 million warrant was issued for Payne’s arrest, and Payne was taken into custody Monday night at Walden House, a substance abuse and mental health treatment center where he was living at 890 Hayes St., police Inspector Joseph Toomey said.
Toomey said Crumbley’s parents are deceased, but a cousin was notified of the latest development in the case and “couldn’t believe an arrest had been made.”
Police Cmdr. Mike Beal said a $450,000 grant for the Police Department’s cold case unit from the National Institute of Justice helped make the arrest possible.
District Attorney George Gascon released a statement today about the importance of DNA evidence.
“Cold hit DNA is integral to bringing criminals to justice,” Gascon said. “This case shows that at times justice can be delayed but it cannot be denied.”
Photo of Crumbley: Bay City News
Dan McMenamin, Bay City News
Want more news, sent to your inbox every day? Then how about subscribing to our email newsletter? Here’s why we think you should. Come on, give it a try.
You don't have permission to access /trapecines-groteles-gelems-kinga-60x150-cm-ghz741043-1-163521.html
on this server.


Posted on 18 gennaio 2017
By Mariangela
Attualità, Primo Piano

ROMA – Martedì 10 gennaio, alle prime luci dell’alba, scatta un blitz antiterrorismo: viene arrestato Saber Hmidi, tunisino 34enne, sospettato di essere un presunto affiliato ad Ansar Al-Sharia, un’organizzazione legata ad Al Qaeda e all’Isis.
L’operazione, denominata “Black Flag”, bandiera nera, come quella che sventola nei video più crudeli di omicidi dell’Isis, non si è svolta solo nella Capitale, ma in tutta la regione Lazio dalla Digos, con la perquisizione e il controllo di alcuni uomini, sospettati di appartenere a organizzazioni terroristiche.
Arrivato in Italia nel 2008, si è sposato con un’italiana convertita all’Islam, con la quale ha una figlia. La sua vita è sregolata e, nel 2011, viene arrestato per droga e detenuto nel carcere di Velletri.
La bandiera nera trovata in casa di Saber Hmidi (Fonte foto: Il Fatto Quotidiano)
Poi viene di nuovo arrestato: nel carcere di Civitavecchia comincia a cercare proseliti, fonda un gruppo di preghiera e organizza spedizioni punitive per i detenuti a cui danno fastidio le preghiere notturne e se ne lamentano.
Le violenze continuano e si ripetono anche nel carcere di Frosinone, dove viene trasferito per motivi di sicurezza: ma niente sembra più fermarlo. Lo trasferiscono ancora e ancora: Secondigliano, Salerno, Viterbo. “Una volta libero andrò in Siria a combattere con i fratelli musulmani”, continua a ripetere.
Le indagini della Digos hanno ricostruito la storia di saber Hmidi da quando è arrivato in Italia: la sua radicalizzazione religiosa è avvenuta proprio in carcere. Il premier Paolo Gentiloni, qualche settimana fa, parlando del rischio terrorismo in Italia, aveva detto che i rischi maggiori per il nostro Paese arrivano dal carcere. Sembra che avesse ragione.
Pietro Angelo Pantano, III D
carcere, detenuti, estremismo religioso, Italia, terrorismo
Il tuo indirizzo email non sarà pubblicato. I campi obbligatori sono contrassegnati *
Commento 
Nome * 
Email * 
Sito web 
Inserisci una risposta in cifre:1 × uno = 
 


Giornalismo a scuola: il progetto di giornalismo…
Genitori in preda al panico, insegnanti increduli…
Perché tanti genitori di figli adolescenti si sentono…
Si è concluso lo scorso 11 aprile…
Conoscersi ha a che fare con il…
Per conoscere gli altri dobbiamo prima conoscere…
Rispetti veramente le persone? Dalla discussione che…
Un gruppo di ragazzi della 2D spiega…
Angemeldet als: therapeutenfinder · 
							zum Profil · abmelden
Fehler - Seite nicht gefunden
Ein toter oder defekter Verweis bzw. engl. Link oder auch Dead Link ist ein Hyperlink im World Wide Web, der auf eine nicht (mehr) vorhandene Ressource (zum Beispiel eine Webseite oder Datei) zeigt. Beim Anwählen der URL eines solchen Verweises liefert der Webserver normalerweise eine Fehlerseite mit dem HTTP-Statuscode 404 Not Found, was bedeutet, dass die angeforderte Datei nicht gefunden wurde.
Quelle: Wikipedia
6 Monate kostenlos testen

						Sie sind Therapeut, Heilpraktiker, Trainer, Arzt, Coach, Heiler und können unseren Besuchern mit Ihrem Angebot helfen? 
						Dann testen Sie unser Angebot 6 Monate lang kostenfrei und ohne Verpflichtungen!
				
In dieser Zeit können Sie alle Funktionen kostenfrei testen und neue Kunden und Klienten gewinnen.

einloggen ins Profil
neu Registrieren

Therapeutensuche, Heilpraktikersuche
EMDR-Brille REMSTIM 3000
Der REMSTIM 3000 wurde eigens für die wirksame Selbstanwendung von EMDR im Coaching entwickelt. Das handliche EMDR-Gerät leitet zur visuellen EMDR-Intervention an und ermöglicht das EMDR-Selbstcoaching. Die Abstimmung seiner Funktionen, die individuellen Einstellmöglichkeiten und deren leichte Bedienung machen den REMSTIM 3000 zu einem effektiven und erprobten Selbstcoaching-Gerät.

Zum Artikel
Mehr erfahren auf remstim.com

Anzeige
http://www.therapeutenfinder.com
BUTTERFLY MCQUEEN Her roles were largely stereotypical, yet her charm and goofiness made her memorable. Here’s a look at her work beyond Gone With the Wind.
DESIGN IN FILM: THE MODERN HOUSEAn eight-minute video montage of modern homes—real and fake—as seen on the silver screen.
KEYE LUKE An examination of the lengthy career of the Chinese-American character actor, from Charlie Chan to Woody Allen.
70MMThirty visually stunning films that illustrate the grandeur of large-format filmmaking.
CHILL WILLS Our look at the Texas actor’s 43-year film career, including an ill-advised Oscar campaign. 
MARGARET HAMILTON A look at the professional life of an actress who proved to be much more than just the Wicked Witch of the West.
NEBRASKANSA look at some of the memorable talents—from Astaire to Zanuck—to come from the Cornhusker State.
BEHIND THE SCENES Twenty-five cool photos reveal what goes on outside of movie camera range.
SILENT SURVIVORS Our list of at least a dozen silent film performers that are happily still with us.
12 GREAT MOVIE SONGSElvis, The Beatles and The Supremes join our list of favorite movie themes of the 1960s.
WILHELM SCREAMWe trace the history of one of the most famous and beloved sound effects in movies.
LOST HORIZONA dud receives its due as we explore the elements that made this 1973 musical so preposterously memorable.
GREAT CLOSING LINESOne hundred films whose final words of dialogue make indelible lasting impressions.
25 GREAT SILENT MOVIE POSTERSOur selection of artwork from the early days of motion pictures that expertly illustrate the tone and tale of the films they represent.
RAVES AND RASPBERRIES We select some choice bits from reviews by the late Roger Ebert.
ERROL FLYNN GETS WHACKEDThe actor recalls an unforgettable moment with Bette Davis on the set of The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex.
CINEMATIC RIDESTen films where carnival attractions add to the plot and give their protagonists a cheap thrill.
REEFER TRILOGY Three overwrought cautionary tales from the 1930s examine the perils of smoking marijuana in polite society.


Cerveza Especial Tostada (33cl)Doble fermentaciónEn nariz: Interesante olor frutal, especiado y maltas tostadasTemperatura aconsejada ...  Ver Más
Cerveza Especial Tostada (33cl)Cerveza premiada por el World Beer Awards 2011 como "Best Brown Dark Ale" y por el Australian International Beer Awards 2012.Doble fermentaciónA la vista: Color rojo - marrón claro con cuerpo voluminoso medio.En nariz: Interesante olor frutal, especiado y maltas tostadasEn boca: Sabores persistentes de maltaTemperatura aconsejada para el consumo: 8 º C
InvitadoIntroduce tu comentario:Tu valoración:Sube una Imágen:document.getElementById('com_imagen').addEventListener('change', verImagen, false);Enviar
Tu valoración:Sube una Imágen:document.getElementById('com_imagen').addEventListener('change', verImagen, false);Enviar
Aunque Bolets Petràs está radicada en Olesa de Montserrat, la cerveza se elabora en Bèlgica. Es muy buena. Cuerpo medio, para mí tirando a dulce, tal vez un poco empalagosa, predomina el gusto y olor a cereal, maltas, poco rastro del lúpulo... cosa del estilo belga supongo.




Cazeau Tournay de Noël
Delirium Christmas
Bush de Noël
La Rúa Mercury
Triporteur Bling Bling
Sesma La Picota








		
		
		
		
		
			
				Welcome, Guest   
			
			Sign Out
Sign In
			 |
				My Account
			
			 |
				
 (0)
				

Normal Production Time7 Working Days
Product SizeApprox. Finished Size: 14 in. x 6 in. x 4.5 in.
Weight11 lbs. per 250 hats
Country of ManufactureUnited States
You will need to provide a City of London Postcode to confirm the incident location e.g. EC2M 4UJ. 
If you provide a postcode outside of the City you will be signposted to the correct police force who can help with your report.
Report a crime or incident
Please report crimes that have happened outside of the City to the Metropolitan Police Service.


	Sie haben einen ungültigen oder nicht mehr gültigen Link aufgerufen.
 21. April 2019, 23:34



Retourne les textes qui contiennent :
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste », « éditocrate », « éditorialiser », « éditorial ».... (« *rialiste » ne retournera rien: l'astérisque * doit être terminale.)
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » mais PAS « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe » ou bien « éditorialiste » ET « Barbier » mais présente en premier les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent exactement la séquence de mots « éditorialiste écharpe ».

Accueil

    







    

 
    > Critiques
    
    
         > (...)
        > En direct de Radio France Internationale (RFI)

Sous ce titre de notre choix, nous publions ci-dessous un communiqué des élus SNJ-CGT, SNRT-CGT, SNJ, FO du Comité d’entreprise de RFI (Acrimed).
La direction voulait que la séance du Comité d’entreprise extraordinaire, convoquée ce vendredi 23 octobre, soit le point final d’une procédure qui dure depuis 9 mois. Exceptionnellement, pour l’occasion, le président était présent alors qu’on ne l’avait pas vu au CE depuis 5 mois. Mais en réalité, cette réunion ne fait que donner le coup d’envoi d’une nouvelle bataille judiciaire.
La majorité des élus considère que cette séance a été convoquée de façon illégale :
- La séance, selon la direction, était la reprise de la séance suspendue le 29 juin, soit 4 mois plus tard. Si une suspension a lieu, elle doit faire l’objet d’un vote. Or la séance du 29 juin a été suspendue sans vote.
- La séance de ce jour a été convoquée sans un ordre du jour propre, malgré les dispositions légales.
- La direction a présenté un document (Livre III) profondément remanié, comportant notamment 100 pages de plus, ce qui aurait dû l’amener à reprendre la procédure depuis le début.
- Enfin et surtout, ce nouveau Livre III ne répond pas aux injonctions de l’arrêt de la Cour d’appel.
Le contenu de ce  nouveau plan présenté au Comité d’entreprise est plus illégal encore que le précédent, notamment sur les mesures de reclassement.
Après avoir voté 3 délibérations, la majorité des élus a levé la séance et s’est retirée.
La direction a ensuite continué à siéger avec les autres élus.
Dans ces conditions, dès maintenant, le CE a décidé de saisir la justice pour faire condamner la direction de RFI à se mettre enfin en conformité avec la loi.
La majorité des élus estime que la procédure d’information et consultation du Livre III redémarre à son début. Ainsi,  nous avons désigné un expert-comptable qui fera son travail d’analyse, et nous espérons que la direction de RFI et de l’AEF n’entravera pas ses démarches.
Au total, nos employeurs continuent à passer outre les décisions de justice qui les condamnent. Ce comportement est irresponsable, et nos dirigeants savent pertinemment les risques auxquels ils s’exposent.
Paris le, 23 octobre 2009

Toutes les brèves
Toutes les vidéos
Tous les communiqués
L’Opinion, ça se travaille...
Les Nouveaux Chiens de garde
Médiacritique(s) n°31
« Au nom de la démocratie, votez bien ! » Retour sur le traitement médiatique des élections présidentielles de 2002 et 2017, par Mathias Reymond
Acrimed, maison fondée en 1996 par Henri Maler et Compagnie

Annuaire des auteurs publiés sur Acrimed
Informations • Contact • Agenda • RSS
Mentions légales • Plan du site • Administration
Design : Arnaud Dénielou • Webmaster : Yanic Gornet
Site motorisé avec SPIP • Optimisé pour Mozilla Firefox • Hébergeur associatif 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment document.getElementById("comment").setAttribute( "id", "a015388d03fe50c98fb65f4a289a5d1f" );document.getElementById("he833170a1").setAttribute( "id", "comment" );
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Notify me of new posts by email. 


 Notify me of new posts by email.


Tu bolsa está vacía
                
x
TU BOLSA HA SIDO ACTUALIZADA
Se han incluido los artículos que habías añadido en tu última sesión.
Al incluir tu correo aceptas recibir comunicaciones personalizadas adaptadas a tu perfil como cliente. Además, trataremos tus datos obtenidos a través de tu navegación en la web, para ofrecerte un contenido afín a tus gustos, basándonos en tus interacciones con la marca. Ten en cuenta que podrás oponerte a este tratamiento.
INFORMACIÓN BÁSICA SOBRE PROTECCIÓN DE DATOS. RESPONSABLE: Punto Fa, SL.  FINALIDAD: Gestión del servicio de envío de comunicaciones personalizadas adaptadas al perfil del interesado. LEGITIMACIÓN: Consentimiento del interesado. DESTINATARIOS: Empresas del Grupo MANGO y empresas encargadas del tratamiento de datos. Se pueden producir transferencias internacionales. DERECHOS: Puedes ejercitar en cualquier momento tus derechos de acceso, rectificación, supresión, oposición y demás derechos legalmente establecidos a través del siguiente e-mail: online@mango.com. INFORMACIÓN ADICIONAL: Puedes consultar la información adicional y detallada sobre protección de datos aquí.
INFORMACIÓN BÁSICA SOBRE PROTECCIÓN DE DATOS. RESPONSABLE: Punto Fa, SL.  FINALIDAD: Gestión del servicio de alertas de disponibilidad de prendas Mango. LEGITIMACIÓN: Consentimiento del interesado. DESTINATARIOS: Empresas del Grupo MANGO y empresas encargadas del tratamiento de datos. Se pueden producir transferencias internacionales. DERECHOS: Puede ejercitar en cualquier momento sus derechos de acceso, rectificación, supresión, oposición y demás derechos legalmente establecidos a través del siguiente email: online@mango.com. INFORMACIÓN ADICIONAL: Puede consultarse la información adicional y detallada sobre protección de datos aquí.
Located on the corner of Grape & 8thWe are open Mon - SatHappy Hour Daily 4 - 6
Bands - Fri & SatBlues & Jazz - TuesdayDJ on ThursdayThirsty Thursday $3 Beer
 
What's special at Grape Street Bar & Grill this Friday?
Lunch Special 11:30am - 2:00pm
French Dip Friday - $1 OFF
French DipFreshly sliced roast beef piled high with provolone cheese on a toasted baguette with au jus
Daily Special2pm - 4pm2 Beers or Well Drinks + Appetizeronly $10**We've add to our special**
Happy Hour4pm - 6pm$2 OFF Appetizers>>Click here for happy hour appetizer menu<<$1 OFF Well, Wine & Beer>>Click here for happy hour bar menu<<
Weekly Drink SpecialWe celebrate weekly with a new drink special
 
 Who will be taking stage and filling up the dance floor??>>Click here for details about Friday's Event<<
    

 
Copyright Grape Street Bar & Grill  All Rights Reserved
 Web Design & Marketing By RedFuel.net
Reviews and News about British, European and Translated crime fiction, tv and film.
Enter your email address:

Delivered by FeedBurner

Image: Matthew Loffhagen Share Pin Tweet +1 Shares 100 Last weekend, my wife and I wandered around a food fair for a while. We looked at all the delicious meals that were on offer, trying to decide what to eat. One very clever stall was offering free samples of chocolate brownies. We went past once, and…
Obs!!! Onsdag och Fredag så öppnar jag 07:00
Målsättning är att Ingen ska behöva vänta mer än 8 timmar på en akuttid.
För dig som bokat tid mellan 08-15 så kan man nu basta eller ligga på chi relax maskinen gratis efter behandling.skriv in detta i kommentars fältet när du bokar.Är man några som bokar tiderna efter varandra så kan den ena basta eller ligga på chi-relax maskinen medans man väntar.De är extra bra för er som kommer långväga eller samåker.
Spa avdelningen är nu igång och skicka ett sms eller mejl för bokning.Det finns 3 st Chi relax maskiner där man ligger ner på en chi relax matta och lägger upp fötterna i en vagga som skapar en vågrörelse genom kroppen.
Denna aktivitet tar 15 min och man avverkar mellan 8000-10000 steg.När maskinen stannar pirrar det härligt i kroppen av Chi och man får en go avslappning.
Det finns 3 st Jade Massage sängar där man ligger och får massage i ca 55 grader uppvärmt av infravärme genom jadestenarna.
En infraröd bastu med plats för 3 personer där man får svettas ordentligt i temperaturer runt 50-60 grader vilket gör det bekvämt att sitta mellan 30-60 minuter utan att det blir svårt att andas.
Man har till gång till en härlig dusch efter .
 Våra avbokningsregler
Om du inte kan komma på bokad tid, ber vi dig att meddela det senast 24 timmar före bokad tid. Om du bokat på boka direkt går det bra att avboka 24h innan). Om avbokning uteblir, debiteras du för din uteblivna behandling. Vi hoppas på din förståelse för detta då någon annan som väntat kunnat fått möjlighet att boka den.
Näytä ainoastaan



Eftersom jag jobbar med flera olika alternativmetoder så söker man inte enbart för smärtor utan stress,utbrändhet,magar som krånglar,sömnproblem,sluta röka är några av alla dom utmaningar man möter.Då jag är utbildad i flera olika behandlingstekniker så har jag möjlighet att kolla av helheten och inte specifika problem.Får idag  besökare med en radie på 25 mil vilket är fantastiskt roligt .När man bokar behöver man inte välja mellan Massage/Gua Sha/Akupunktur eller Laser utan det gör vi på plats.Obs!! Pågående 2 årig utbildning till Homopat.



Kotisivu

                    ›
                    


                                Akupunktur Kungälv 

                        ›

                        


                                    Massage & friskvårdsterapeuten i Kungälv AB





Du behöver välja en person/kalender för att kunna boka flera tider samtidigt.
Markera de tjänster du vill boka.

                                    © Bokadirekt AB 2018
                                
Hi! To make Bokadirekt better we use cookies to collect, process and share some information about our visitors.
Bokadirekt uses cookies to provide its core functionality, analyze your use of the site, assist with our promotional and marketing efforts, and provide content from third parties.
You can read more and customize your settings for how we use cookies on our cookie page.
           
Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning in Bingleburra  is the only choice for when you need professional Crime Scene Clean up performed at your place of business or residence in Bingleburra .  Not only will you be guaranteed a professional clean performed by one of our trained and experienced biohazard cleaning technicians in Bingleburra , but you can rest assure that your clean will also be treated with the upmost respect and sensitivity because at Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning Bingleburra  we understand that the circumstances in which we are engaged by you are not pleasant and will do what we can to remediate your property back to its original state of cleanliness. 
If you find yourself in the unfortunate situation of needing the services of a crime scene cleaner, make sure you contact Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning Bingleburra . Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning Bingleburra  are experts in the field of Crime Scene Cleaning and by engaging us to clean the scene you will have peace of mind knowing that you can safely return to your Bingleburra  residence or place of business without running the risk of unseen biohazards lingering long after we’ve gone. Your property will be fully sterilised and tested using microbial swabs to ensure your family is safe.
     
For Crime Scene Cleaning in Bingleburra  - Call the Cleaning Technicians from the team at Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning now on 1300 246 429.
  
We are leaders in Biohazard & Trauma Clean ups from unattended death cleaning and sterilisation to raw sewage contamination and crime scene and forensic cleaning. We Do it all and have an experienced team of professional bio-hazard cleaning technicia
Read more...
Tweets by @BiohazardCleans
!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+"://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");
 Phone: 1300 246 429 (1300 BIO HAZ)
 Website: crimescenecleanups.com.au
 Email: click to view email
Urgent Crime Scene Cleaning in Bingleburra . We respond 24/7 to all accidents and biohazard remidation call outs. Call a Cleaning Technician from the team at Biohazard Trauma & Crime Scene Cleaning at your first choice.
Copyright 2019 BIOHAZARD TRAUMA & CRIME SCENE CLEANING - All rights reserved.
7 Packs Phytoscience Apple Grape Double Stem Cell Immune System Against Diseases
Ook als u geen online zaken doet en geen miljoenenomzet draait, kunt u als ondernemer doelwit zijn van internetcriminelen. Zij installeren zonder dat u dat door heeft software op uw computer en kunnen zo geld en data stelen. Daar bovenop maakt u kosten om het systeem te herstellen, virussen te verwijderen en uw gegevens terug te halen.
Veel cyberverzekeringen bieden een beveiligingspakket waarmee u ervoor zorgt dat digitale aanvallen en virussen buiten de deur blijven. Krijgen criminelen toch toegang tot uw computer, dan kunt u rekenen op technische ondersteuning om de gevolgen ongedaan te maken of te beperken. Lijdt u financiële schade dan krijgt u een vergoeding.
De dekking betreft:
Cybercrime is de snelst groeiende vorm van misdaad. Onder cybercriminaliteit vallen verschillende criminele handelingen van phising tot een site platleggen of gegevens stelen. In 2014 kreeg zo’n 20% van de mkb-bedrijven te maken met internetcriminaliteit. De jaarlijkse schade van digitale diefstal ligt tussen de 9 en 30 miljard euro. Ook hebben steeds meer bedrijven last van ransomeware of gijzelsoftware waarbij bestanden geblokkeerd zijn en alleen tegen betaling weer vrijgegeven worden.

Sinds 1 januari 2016 bestaat de meldplicht datalekken in. Dat betekent dat u als bedrijf direct een melding moet doen bij de Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens als u een ernstig datalek heeft. 

Onderschat het probleem van cybercrime niet, maar vraag ons naar de mogelijkheden om u te verzekeren.
De premie die u betaalt hangt onder meer af van:
Set edition preference:
Set edition preference:
Set edition preference:
Sara Ganim and Devon Sayers, CNN Investigations

Updated 1428 GMT (2228 HKT) October 23, 2014 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.

Chapel Hill, North Carolina (CNN)For 18 years, thousands of students at the prestigious University of North Carolina took fake "paper classes," and advisers funneled athletes into the program to keep them eligible, according to a scathing independent report released Wednesday.

A Florida man is behind bars after he got caught pretending to be a police officer.
 Copyright © 2019, New York Daily News 
    Somos Asociación profesional, por lo que nuestro principal objetivo es la promoción, divulgación y protección de nuestra profesión en bien de nuestros socios.    La junta directiva trabaja altruistamente basando su trabajo en planes estratégicos  con objetivos claros.    La difusión de este trabajo a los socios se tiene como prioridad.    La misión de APATO, es lo que se ha trabajado, lo que se trabaja y lo que se trabajará por la lucha a favor de los intereses del colectivo de los terapeutas ocupacionales de Andalucía. Los pasos que damos son en base a las prioridades del momento presente y en beneficio a todos los profesionales.
    Nuestra visión, se basa en nuestro pasado, creando nuestro presente y para llegar a tener un futuro, hacia la mejora de la presencia y representatividad de  nuestra profesión.
    APATO, cuenta con la colaboración y participación de sus SOCIOS y le da mucho valor e importancia al asociacionismo ya que es la manera de conseguir muchos de los objetivos que nos hemos propuesto. Ya que los Terapeutas Ocupacionales de Andalucía: “UNIDOS SOMOS MÁS”.Las acciones en las que trabaja APATO se basan en el  PLAN ESTRATÉGICO de la junta directiva 2016-2020 centrados en cuatro apartados principalmente:
A. Asociados/as: necesidades y características, número y participación.    a. Acciones encaminadas a aumentar el número y la participación de las personas asociadas.    b. Obtener un mapa de las características y necesidades de las personas asociadas.    c. Convenios en beneficio de los socios. 
B. Colegio Profesional Andaluz de Terapeutas Ocupacionales    a. Trámites administrativos y políticos de cara a la creación del Colegio Profesional.    b. Asesoramiento de las exigencias que marca la Ley de Colegios con el objetivo de preparar la asociación para el cambio.
C. Identidad y proyección de la Terapia Ocupacional en Andalucía.    a. La elaboración de un mapa de recursos socio-sanitarios con servicios de T.O y un censo de Terapeutas Ocupacionales en Andalucía.    b. Participación en el convenio de las Organizaciones Nacionales de T.O. Participando en todos los trámites llevados a cabo con el objetivo de incorporar la Terapia Ocupacional como disciplina de colegiación obligatoria en el proyecto de Ley de Colegios y Servicios Profesionales.    c. Apoyo de la aprobación del Consejo General de Colegios.    d. Realización del Convenio entre la Clínica de San Juan de Dios de Iquitos, (Perú) y APATO, con la estancia de dos terapeutas ocupacionales en  Iquitos-Perú como voluntarios/as.     e. Trámites con la Comisión de baremación de la bolsa única de empleo del Servicio Andaluz de Salud.
D. Excelencia profesional.     a. Participación en la comisión de la realización del Código Deontológico único a adoptar a nivel Nacional por los Terapeutas Ocupacionales.    b. Promoción y realización de actividades de formación: con formación propia de APATO acreditada por la Agencia de Calidad Andaluza, en convenio con ERGOFORMACION, la coordinación de  Jornadas de Terapia Ocupacional, etc.    c. Promoción de actividades de investigación con la participación de APATO como miembro de la Sociedad Científica Nacional de Terapeutas Ocupacionales (SOCINTO).
 
    QUEREMOS FORMAR PARTE DEL MAPA DE ESPAÑA DE COLEGIOS PROFESIONALES. ACTUALMENTE priorizamos la gestión y tramitación del Colegio Profesional Andaluz de Terapeutas Ocupacionales. En la actualidad en trámite en la Consejería de Justicia.
 
    La diferencia entre un colegio profesional y una asociación profesional es que:        • El colegio, es un organismo oficial una “corporación de derecho público” lo que significa que debe cumplir ciertas normas como servicio público         • Una asociación es una reunión de profesionales con el fin de defender sus intereses.
    Un Colegio Profesional tiene como objetivos:         • ORDENAR EN EL AMBITO DE SU COMPETENCIA LA ACTIVIDAD PROFESIONAL        • EVITAR LA COMPETENCIA DESLEAL        • EVITAR EL INTRUSISMO        • REPRESENTAR ANTE LAS INSTITUCIONES        • ORGANIZAR SERVICIOS DE ASESORAMIENTO        • ORGANIZAR ACTIVIDADES Y SERVICIOS COMUNES DE INTERES        • EJERCER LA JURISDICCION DISCIPLINARIA
    Actualmente APATO trabaja hacia estos objetivos.Los fines de la APATO SEGÚN SUS ESTATUTOS, son los siguientes:     a) Agrupar a todos los Terapeutas Ocupacionales de la Comunidad Autónoma de Andalucía que, conforme a la Ley vigente, se encuentren habilitados para el ejercicio de dicha actividad en cualquiera de sus especialidades y, a aquellas personas que se encuentren en período de adquisición de esta condición, esto es, que se encuentren matriculadas en centros universitarios que impartan la Titulación Oficial de Terapia Ocupacional.     b) Velar por el perfeccionamiento profesional y cultural de todos sus miembros, colaborando a estos fines con los organismos a que compete esta misión.     c) Fomentar la solidaridad entre sus asociados y la ayuda común.     d) Fomentar la colaboración entre las distintas Asociaciones de Terapeutas Ocupacionales y Colegios Profesionales de Terapeutas Ocupacionales existentes en España.    e) Fomentar la colaboración entre las distintas asociaciones y entidades relacionadas con la Terapia Ocupacional a nivel internacional.     f) Ejercer en el marco de la legalidad cuantas acciones procedan en defensa de los legítimos intereses de la Asociación o de sus asociados en aquellas materias relacionadas con la Terapia Ocupacional, su ejercicio profesional y las condiciones laborales, retributivas, asistenciales, docentes y de cualquier otra naturaleza en la que ésta se desarrolla, pudiendo acudir ante toda clase de organismos administrativos o jurisdiccionales de la Comunidad Autónoma de Andalucía, del Estado e internacionales.     g) Prestar asesoría a sus miembros en cuantos aspectos comprende el ejercicio de la Terapia Ocupacional y las condiciones de toda índole en las que éste se desempeña. Y para su consecución desarrollará las siguientes actividades:    • Convocar, celebrar y participar en toda clase de reuniones científicas, congresos, jornadas y ponencias relacionadas con la Terapia Ocupacional.    • Informar y asesorar a las autoridades educativas, sociales, administrativas, locales y sanitarias sobre todos los aspectos de la disciplina atendiendo a cuantos requerimientos y solicitudes le fueran formulados, cursando a su vez las peticiones, propuestas y reclamaciones que contribuyan a mejorar las condiciones del ejercicio profesional.     • Contribuir al progreso social y sanitario mediante el fomento de la investigación científica en las Ciencias Sociales y de la Salud.     • Fomentar el prestigio de la Terapia Ocupacional en la Comunidad Autónoma de Andalucía.     • Publicar información con carácter científico y divulgador en materia relativa a la Terapia Ocupacional.
Denver Weather Summary: 50 degrees
1 Weather Alert
Holiday Cuisine Recipes Only Please.
Use this control to limit the display of threads to those newer than the specified time frame.
Allows you to choose the data by which the thread list will be sorted.

Order threads in...
Note: when sorting by date, 'descending order' will show the newest results first.
Forum Rules
 Niciun produs
Draperies in Riceville, IA
We bring you top quality drapery in Riceville, IA at very affordable prices. Despite the fact that the quality of our drapers gives us every right to give them to you at premium rates, we prefer to offer relatively affordable rates to that a majority of customers can have a chance to have purchase them. Other than the affordable pricing, we also offer flexible modes and methods of making payments. To find out more about our prices and the various means of payment, kindly give us a call at 888-307-1690 and we will be glad to supply you with all the information you need.
At Drapery Team, we have wealth of experience in the drapery industry. We have witnessed various technological changes in the field and also adapted our products and services to suit the ever changing markets as well as the needs of our customers. We have seasoned designers whom have been with us for close to three decades and it is through their efforts and creatively that has contributed to us being one of the biggest stores dealing with Draperies in Riceville, IA.
Due to the excellence that we have continuously ensured in the production of our fabric as well as the quality of our customer care executives, we have managed to receive a number of important recognition from most of the industry leaders as well as quality assurance organizations. These can only point out to the fact that we are indeed the best people to go to for all your Draperies in Riceville, IA. We still have the urge and the desire to continue offering you with the best drapers that will ultimately meet your tailoring needs. Give us a call at 888-307-1690 for more information about our products and services.
Call us today at 888-307-1690 and enjoy our superior customer care services.
Mobile in-house drapery services
Are you in need of quality drapery but you do not want to our offices to make your selection and purchase? Well, our mobile in-house drapery services were specially designed for valued clients like you. With this service, our drapery consultants will come right to your home with several pairs of actual drapery, design inspirations as well as different kinds of fabrics that have been taken from our showroom. You will thus have the convenience of having a professional consultant help you make your choice from the comfort of your home. Call us today at 888-307-1690 for our mobile in-house drapery services in Riceville, IA and we will be glad to serve you.
In-store drapery services
Other than availing to you home consultation services, we also have in-store consultation services for our drapery products and services in Riceville, IA. When you visit our stores, you will have a chance to go through the different types of Draperies we have and you will also have a drapery consultant on standby to help you make your choice. You will have a chance to see, touch, feel and test the various products we have so that you purchase what you are absolutely comfortable and happy with. Visit us today and get the best Draperies in Riceville. IA.


Drapery Team - Copyright © 2015


        Posted 
    
      July 06, 2007 08:02:00
    

The New South Wales Minister for Police, David Campbell, says in the past six months high visibility policing under the Operation Vikings banner has driven down crime across the state, including at the local region.
Mr Campbell says for the mid-north coast there were more than 200 extra police shifts rostered as part of Operation Vikings.
He says it has resulted in 44 arrests and 47 charges.
"What we've seen in high visibility Vikings Operations in the first half of this year has also led to 49 knife searches, 13 people charged with assault, almost 20 charged with a breach of the peace and more than 17 people charged with drink-driving - that was on the mid-north coast," he said.

Topics:
crime,


	
	states-and-territories,


	
	police,


	
	coffs-harbour-2450




  More
 stories from New South Wales

If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.
All the key stories, analysis, Antony Green's election guides, Vote Compass, videos and more.

        By Europe correspondent Bridget Brennan in Paris
The restoration of the "soul of Paris" is shaping up to be one of France's most controversial national projects, and already, everyone has an opinion on how it should proceed.

        By Grace Jennings-Edquist
Yes, fuss-free (and humane) car travel with pets is possible. Here's how.

        By Alan Weedon
Over the centuries, Easter has come under many different guises — and in recent years, the hyper-commercial holiday has sometimes become lost in translation. 

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)


                            TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to
                            make our site easier for you to use.
                            We do also share that information with third parties for
                            advertising & analytics.
                        

            by Martin Bryant
            — 

Put the leader of Sweden’s Pirate Party in the same room as a bunch of music industry executives and you can expect fireworks. That’s exactly what happened as the music industry seminar In The City began in Manchester today.
Opening this year’s event with a chance for a self-proclaimed pirate to discuss his manifesto was a controversial move. Rumour has it that one major label threatened to ban its staff from attending the debate.
You. Are. Missing. Out.
The Pirate Party famously won a seat in the European Parliament earlier this year, but few know exactly what they stand for. In a speech grandly entitled ‘Shelters or Windmills’, leader Rick Falkvinge described his party as a “Civil liberties movement” aimed at protecting the privacy of citizens both online and offline.
He argued that music should be free, with money made by attaching additional value to it. He gave the example of Evian and Volvic – they do pretty well out of taking something free (water), bottling it and selling it at a profit. People can still get their water free if they choose.
When it comes to specific policies, they can be boiled down to this:
It’s this final point that caused a stir. Until then the on-stage panel and assembled music industry had listened politely. Most had actually agreed with much of what The Pirate Party was proposing, but only five years to make money from music? It was too much for Dave Smith, manager of artists including Mr Scruff, who angrily declared “If this was the middle ages I’d burn you at the stake”.
Medieval violence aside, it’s true that The Pirate Party’s policies do seem a little half-baked. While they supportl an individual’s right to copy music as much as they want, they haven’t thought much about how artists get paid.
When asked how musicians could make money once their five year copyright term had expired he replied that it was simply muscians’ “entrepreneurial challenge”. He may have a point to a degree, but it did smack a little of  “We really don’t care”, with a vague notion that voluntary donations from fans will fill the gap.
One encouraging thing that became apparent during the panel debate was that there’s a growing view within the music industry that the only realistic way forward is to find a compromise between the desires of fans and the demands of the industry.
Maybe we’ll find a way out of this mess yet.

Read next:

        Its conference season, time to get out. We get you a discount or free entrance    

Stay tuned with our weekly recap of what’s hot & cool by our CEO Boris.

        Join over 260,000 subscribers!
    

                Sit back and let the hottest tech news come to you by the magic of electronic mail.
            

                Prefer to get the news as it happens? Follow us on social media.
            

1.76M followers
                        

1M likes
                        

                Got two minutes to spare? We'd love to know a bit more about our readers.
Start!


                All data collected in the survey is anonymous.
            
© 2015
For the best experience and to ensure full functionality of this site, please enable JavaScript in your browser.
Ask About Reduced Fee Couples Sessions
The end of the year is a time of reflection, and we would like to honor that with a compilation of tips and resources for you and your relationship.
Looking back on 2015, how do you think you did with your relationship? What fights seemed big at the time but now are hardly remembered? How have you grown intimately? Where would you like to see yourselves by the end of next year?
We have written a lot of relationship advice for couples this year, and most recently I wrote about the benefit of relationship resolutions. This follow-up is to help inspire ideas and assist in planning out ways to improve your relationship heading into the New Year. Below are common topics that partners complain about or want to improve along with resources for how you can approach each issue.
Communication
I don’t want us to be so affected by fighting. It distances us too much. 
During relational conflict, we often fall victim to our survival strategies that develop to protect our vulnerabilities. We forget this is someone we love and lose our ability to empathize. Remember these tips to better manage your anger, and try to avoid passive aggressive behavior during conflict. Communication should occur in a safe space, and that can only happen if you both try to be open and vulnerable with each other.
Conflict is inevitable in relationships, and healthy couples know how to repair any rifts and forgive after conflict occurs. To keep conflict from tearing you apart, learn your partner’s apology language, and overcome your barriers to forgiveness. It is often difficult to forgive, but it is a necessary component to long-term relationship success.
I do not want us to fight every time we talk about money.
Money can be a triggering topic because financial values are often intimately tied to our personal vulnerabilities. Discussions about finances often involve our ideas of power, control, and success. Thus, when things are not going well financially, some are prone to take it quite personally. Increase your awareness of your underlying issues associated with finances, and regularly discuss your financial situation with your partner.
Really, I just want us to communicate more and to prioritize the relationship. 
Resentment is the arch villain to relationship health. It breeds emotional distance and allows important problems to go unaddressed, sometimes until it is too late. In her book, Marriage in Modern Life: Why It Works, When It Works, Dr. Malec discusses how improving your ability to communicate openly and routinely can keep resentment from destroying your relationship.
Other times, your communication may need a boost from the routine talk you and your partner share. It can be difficult to maintain interesting conversation with the same person over many years, and it is something you can continue to improve. Take some time to check in with your partner on how he or she currently views the relationship. Help each other understand and initiate the changes you would like to see in the relationship, and follow-up with each other.
Passion
How can we bring back the spark? 
It is normal for passion to fluctuate in long-term relationships. We crave security in our partners, but passion needs mystery and novelty to thrive. Shake things up by taking new risks or remember these tips to keep the spark alive.
I want to feel more desired.
Over time, we may not try as hard to show our partners how much we desire and appreciate them. It is important to not take this for granted and to openly communicate when you feel insecure or crave something new from your partner. It requires vulnerability, but actively pursuing your partner and discussing your needs can greatly enhance the passion in your relationship.
Intimacy
We never spend enough time together. 
A relationship can be replaced as a priority when certain external stressors or responsibilities get in the way. However, it is important to find ways to connect with your partner on a daily and weekly basis. We recommend that couples try Gottman’s method of devoting six magical hours to the relationship in a week because it is both doable and greatly beneficial for maintaining intimacy.
Ever since our baby was born, we have felt so distant. I want to reconnect.
The transition to parenthood can be difficult for couples, as parenthood takes significant time, energy, and focus away from the intimate relationship, especially early on. Be active in maintaining intimacy during the transition, and regularly check in with each other to see what you can do to improve and enhance the strength of your intimate relationship during this time.
I want us to feel more like partners.
From big to small gestures, there are many things you can do to be a better partner, and one of the easiest is to tell your partner you desire to be better and would like his or her input on how you can do so. Beware of keeping score, as healthy couples do not concern themselves so much with who is right or wrong. The priority needs to be on understanding and appreciating your differing perspectives. You did not choose your partner because he or she is exactly the same as you. You chose a partner who is complementary and who is able to fulfill your relational needs.
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 514Chicago, IL 60606
Get Directions
P: 312-578-9990
Symmetry Counseling gives you the support and tools you need. Schedule your appointment now
©2017 Symmetry Counseling. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy



Around Christmas the news media talking a lot about Porch Pirates.  Those people who follow delivery trucks or see a…
A South Wales Police van in Penarth. The Penarth police station is staffed 24/7
These figures appear not to include a category of violent crime now labelled as “Assault with Injury” of which there were 8 cases in September 2017 and another 8 in October 2017.
The latest batch of police figures were presented to Penarth Town Council last night by Inspector David Barclay who has recently taken over from his predecessor at Penarth Inspector Gary Smart.
A library picture of Redlands Road, Penarth – where police told Penarth Council last night that a victim of violence had sustained a fractured eye socket in a suspected “racially motivated” attack
Inspector Barclay said there had been serious incident of violence on Redlands Road, Penarth in which a youth had sustained a fractured eye-socket. Investigations were being made into whether  the incident had been “racially motivated” . An arrest had been made.
He also said there had been a crime “spike” in early November  – a factor which is not included in the September/October figures which he had given the council last night.
Inspector Barclay highlighted domestic burglaries (10 in September 2017 and 5 in Oct0ber 2017 ) as a growing concern.  Although some arrests had been made, across the Vale burglaries continue to be reported – indicating that the culprits have not yet been caught.  He said it was not possible to establish any pattern for the break-ins. However  the “modus operandi” was the same in most cases – a brick through the back door or  patio window.
Cllr Yvonne Murphy (Labour St Augustines) demanded action from the police on drug trafficking in St Augustine’s Ward
During the council’s bi-monthly police briefings most Labour councillors ask only polite inquiries about topics like school car parking arrangements … but not Yvonne Murphy (Labour St Augustines) .
She fearlessly waded-in to ask Inspector Barclay when the police were going to do something about the increasing drug-trafficking problem in her ward – which involved drugs like cocaine. There was, she said, an area within the ward where drug dealing was prevalent.
Cllr Murphy said she had lived in the St Augustine’s Ward for 12 years but – in all that time –  had “never seen a police officer there” .
Inspector Barclay – who has been in his new post for 6 weeks – said that often residents were not aware that police WERE actually patrolling their local areas. He told the councillors that when  he was serving in Gibbonsdown (Barry)  – where  similar things had been said – he had  resorted to knocking on the front-doors of residents to demonstrate that police were indeed patrolling the area.
In the latest batch of statistics the categories of specific crimes on the  bi-monthly Penarth Crime Report  appear to have been arbitrarily altered by the police  – which makes it more difficult for local residents – who pay the South Wales Police Precept on their Council Tax Bills –  to compare the performance of their local  police month-on-month.
 
According to a national newspaper
Penarth’s one of the nodes in a drug mule network .
Well it seems the Police are on the ball in Penarth , one person mentions living in Penarth in the St Augustines area for 12 years but says she has never seen the Police in all that time. But quick as a flash comes the reply , “yes we are around their even if not seen” so obviously its those “Invisible Police patrols ” employed by the local Police . And its nice to hear the Barry contributor say in Barry  sometimes they “knocked  on someone’s door ” to show their presence !!!!????? how reassuring to know the Police are around but unable to be seen !!?? A bit like the CTV cameras around town , that ARE WORKING , are not working , ARE WORKING , are not working , which clears up any doubt on the subject . It was nice to note at bi- monthly Police meeting Police were only asked POLITE QUESTIONS (commonly known as the easy ones) such as parking around schools etc , so as not to be too taxing or difficult . Yes nothing to worry about ,invisible Police and imaginary CTVs in Penarth , I for one can breath easy knowing how pampered we are .
Well four of them, a van and car, all with blue flashing lights, turned up to investigate noises reported as coming from inside St Pauls Church one afternoon last week.
I was working in the lane behind and probably was the one making the noises that were reported as coming from inside the church, but they did react en-masse, so they are around.
Comments are closed.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 
		                Follow                    


Abigail Watson 
5 December 2018


















This article was first published on The Strategy Bridge on December 5, 2018. 
As the British Government grapples with the mistakes of the Iraq War, key among the priorities moving forward has been a commitment to ensure military efforts are focused on  political goals. This has been evident in successive national strategies and doctrine, such as the 2011 Building Stability Overseas Strategy: “The chances of success are greatest when the international community gets behind a political settlement that lays the foundations for tackling the causes of conflict in a country.”
Major efforts have been made to institutionalise this commitment, most visible of which has been the creation of the National Security Council which brings together military, political, development, and economic stakeholders once a week to discuss national priorities. While these changes have been substantial, 18 months of interviews and roundtables with experts from academia, civil society, the government, and the military—both in the UK and on operation—suggest that many are skeptical about whether the UK can deliver real change.
This wariness may, in part, be explained by a recent shift in military engagement. Faced with declining military budgets and continued terrorist threats abroad, the UK like many of its allies, has increasingly engaged through light footprint military intervention. This approach, which we refer to as remote warfare has been called a number of other things by academics and commentators, including surrogate and vicarious warfare. It sees the UK and its allies playing a supporting role—providing air support, training, equipment, and intelligence to local and regional actors who do the bulk of frontline fighting against terrorist groups in places like Yemen, Somalia, Iraq, Syria, and Libya. These operations lack the same level of public and parliamentary oversight as conventional deployments and have allowed the UK to engage militarily with little external debate.
In an era of high political, military, and economic risk aversion this may seem like an appealing way to intervene against potential threats abroad. Added to this, the high-profile, territorial defeat of the Islamic State has done much to reassure critics that this model of engagement can work. However, these same campaigns also provide cautionary tales. Despite efforts to address the broader causes of instability, the current use of remote warfare has been predominantly military-focused and counter-terrorism oriented, often to the detriment of broader political efforts.
The Perils of Remote Warfare
At its most basic, remote warfare refers to the countering of threats at a distance, without the deployment of large military forces. In this sense, the remoteness comes from a country’s military being one step removed from the frontline fighting—which tends to be carried out by local groups or regional coalitions. While it involves security force assistance, it is also focussed on countering an adversary; the UK provides a lot of assistance to allies that cannot be sensibly characterised as warfare—for example the majority arms sales, joint exercises, and so on are designed and delivered in relative peacetime for a whole range of reasons other than assisting frontline fighting.

Similarly, remote warfare is not necessarily carried out via remote weapons systems. While drone strikes, air strikes, cyber attacks, or autonomous weapons no doubt have the potential to increase the physical distance between operator and target, they can be used to support any sort of operation. In short, the remote in remote warfare speaks more to strategic than physical distance. In the following section we will sketch out what this means for where we can see remote warfare in action.








UK support to Kurdish forces in Iraq and Syria can be seen as remote warfare, because the UK is supporting actions through the supply of arms, training, advice, and assistance. In the event of a large scale deployment of British troops to combat IS, where troops were assigned combat roles and rules of engagement (ROEs) and undertake the bulk of frontline fighting this would cease to be remote warfare, at least for the purposes of our work.
In some senses, this approach may appear to support broader British efforts to build sustainable peace in places it intervenes; certainly, the logic of the Building Stability Overseas Strategy appears to be that building partner capacity now will allow local forces to provide security in their countries and regions more autonomously in the future. The strategy states, “Effective and accountable military and police forces can also play a role in regional and global stability” but notes that this will require “support to build the capacity of security forces [to] be matched with efforts to build accountability, legitimacy and respect for human rights.”
Recent campaigns against the Islamic State indicate that it is here that there is a tension with the current use of remote warfare: most of the military activity in contemporary campaigns—including the training and equipping of local forces—is focused on countering terrorism and, thus, short-term objectives are likely to take priority. This incentivises British decision-makers to pick local partners based on their ability to counter terrorist groups like Islamic State rather than assessing of which groups might help to build an effective, accountable, legitimate force that might improve long-term prospects for peace and security. This certainly appears to be the case in anti-Islamic State efforts in Iraq and Syria.
THE FIGHT AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE: IN SEARCH OF A POLITICAL SETTLEMENT 
The British government has long emphasised the need for a long-term political solution to combat Islamic State in the Middle East. Former Defence Secretary, Sir Michael Fallon, said of the air campaign: “Airstrikes are only one component in a military strategy which must be accompanied by a political solution to deliver long-term peace and security to the region.” Indeed, alongside providing the second-largest military contribution to the anti-Islamic State coalition (behind the U.S.), the UK has shown leadership on broader issues of the conflict.
In Iraq, the U.S., the UK, and Germany led talks on Peshmerga reform in 2017, aiming to strengthen the process of unifying Peshmerga brigades—which are split along party lines between the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan—under one Ministry of Peshmerga. The Conflict, Stability and Security Fund also reports a spend of £10,650,000 on programmes in Iraq for 2017-18, with efforts focusing on stabilisation, community reintegration, advisory, and governance support. In Syria, the UK was one of the first to respond to the humanitarian crisis caused by the civil war and has since committed to spending £271 million on the country in its 2018/19 planned budget. Even with an entrenched Assad government and the Iranian-Russian-Turkish counterforce in the region, the UK and France have called on the U.S. to “form a long-term strategy aimed at a cease fire and a political settlement.”
However, alongside these political efforts, military operations in both countries have been short-term, militarily-orientated, and predominantly focused on counter-terrorism. At times these efforts have not only been in tension with the political objectives set by the UK Government but appear to be actively undermining them.
Military operations have dramatically cut the territorial gains of the Islamic State; however, as Robert Malley, vice president for policy at the International Crisis Group, notes the gaze of the local and regional partners that the UK and its allies worked with to achieve these aims “was fixed on the wars after the war against the Islamic State.” Thus, in emboldening these groups to defeat the Islamic State, the West may have sewn greater instability in the region, especially as these partners begin to refocus on their long-term goals.
IMPACT ON IRAQ 
In Iraq, the UK has provided extensive support to Peshmerga forces “[a]s part of … the Global Coalition to counter Daesh.” In evidence to the UK Foreign Affairs Committee, the Foreign Office describes how the UK has trained 57, 000 members of the Iraqi Security Forces, including 9,000 Peshmerga fighters; gifted £3 million of arms and ammunition to the Peshmerga; and provided air support to the Peshmerga as part of the Coalition. In field research for the Oxford Research Group’s most recent report, many high-level officials complained that there was insufficient focus on the post-Islamic State phase throughout the campaign, including when it came to the impact of this support.








An effect of this short-sightedness was evident in the violence in Kirkuk in October 2017, when Iraqi forces retook the city in response to the Kurdish independence referendum. This has threatened to push national divisions back to pre-Islamic State levels. Strong support for both the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdistan Democratic Party in the May 2018 general elections (allegations of voter fraud notwithstanding), plus their strong performance in September’s (again contested) Iraqi Kurdistan parliamentary elections, suggest that neither party will feel under pressure to move forward with Peshmerga reform in the near future. Similarly, accusations that Patriotic Union of Kurdistan forces had abandoned Kurdistan Democratic Party leader and then-President of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region Masoud Barzani during the violence in Kirkuk and, more recently, threats from smaller Kurdish groups like Gorran to create their own armed self-defence forces risk undermining nascent unity between Kurdish groups.








Groups like the Peshmerga have been essential to the fight against Islamic State; however, their empowerment throughout the course of the campaign now threatens to weaken the unity of an already fragmented Iraqi security sector. Now, many Iraqis had begun claiming that the Iraqi Army “is lucky if it can be considered the fourth-strongest army in Iraq—behind, Kurdistan’s Peshmerga forces, the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF, largely Shia paramilitaries) and Iraqi tribal fighters.”
IMPACT ON SYRIA
Similar problems are evident in Syria where the UK and its allies have supported the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Syrian Democratic Forces began life as the Kurdish-dominated People's Protection Units (Yekîneyên Parastina Gel or YPG), who forged a relationship with the international anti-Islamic State coalition when the Islamic State moved to take Kobani, a Syrian Kurdish town on the border with Turkey, in September 2014. With allied air support to Kurdish fighters on the ground, Islamic State suffered significant casualties and the siege of the town was successfully broken. As commentators note, this was the moment when “an operational relationship was born. The midwife was tactical necessity. Larger issues of national security objectives, overall strategy for Syria, and an important bilateral relationship with a NATO partner were made subordinate to the singular focus on attacking ISIS.




While working with these local groups has greatly helped U.S. and UK efforts in the fight against Islamic State, with some senior U.S. officials saying that many of its operations would not have been possible without local eyes and ears on the ground, it has had a number of broader implications. Within Syria, this relationship has increased tensions between Kurds and Arabs. As Haid Haid, of Chatham House, notes, “Many Syrian Arabs saw the Syrian Democratic Force’s attack on rebel-held areas …as a Kurdish pretext to take advantage of U.S. support and expand their territories in areas where Arabs are a majority.” The Syrian Democratic Forces and its political affiliate, the Syrian Democratic Council, have set up bureaucratic structures in liberated territory; however, Crisis Group argues, “Outside majority-Kurdish areas … [the People's Protection Units] governance model appears fragile.” They describe efforts “to achieve Arab buy-in to its project” as “partial and haphazard” rather than “meaningful.” Haid goes further, stating: “Reported violations committed by some Kurdish groups against Arab communities, have led to ethnic tensions between local communities.”
CONCLUSION: THE NEED FOR DEBATE
Recent campaigns in Iraq and Syria reveal both the drivers towards, and the dangers of, remote warfare. In Iraq and Syria, this approach has allowed Western governments to greatly reduce the territorial gains of the Islamic State with a limited military footprint and lower political and economic cost; however, in doing so, it has, at times, appeared to undermine political efforts at building lasting peace.
While forces in both countries have rolled back the Islamic State they have left behind a fragmented Iraqi security sector struggling to provide security to the population and exacerbated the fracturing of Syrian society, with few prospects for uniting those that defeated the Islamic State with the population they now plan to control. Added to this, the U.S. Department of Defense stated in August 2018 that the Islamic State retains nearly 30,000 fighters across Iraq and Syria, which continue to threaten fractured national security sectors.
This indicates how choosing partners most able to tackle terrorist groups—rather than most likely to provide accountable and legitimate security—will do little to operationalise the objectives of documents like the Building Stability Overseas Strategy or deliver on UK ambitions of achieving a longer-term, political settlement in the places the UK intervenes. And, in fact, even before these bold ambitions the worsening instability and continued threat of terrorism in the region raise serious questions about the full cost of this approach, in both blood and treasure.
Conversations with those in and around Whitehall and the National Security Council, indicated that they were not unaware of the complexities of the situations they were intervening in, nor did the negative consequences of British action appear unforeseen. Rather, many spoke of the fact that the UK did not have enough political mandate or influence over coalition operations to do anything differently. Whatever the truth, when military and political efforts not only appear in tension but at odds this is surely bad strategy—and does not build much confidence in new mechanisms like the National Security Council that are meant to  synchronise efforts across government.
Moreover, the solution is rarely the route of least political resistance. The limited footprint and almost complete lack of British casualties of remote warfare has, for the most part, spared the UK government from intense scrutiny or public protest, but, this relative opacity also appears to be hindering attempts to reform the British strategic decision-making process. A frank and honest debate about the risk of intervention is essential to avoiding mistakes of the past. This is the only way to ensure key stakeholders—such as the military, departments within Whitehall, Parliament, non-governmental organizations, and civil society—can speak truth to power when British objectives diverge.
It is an enduring truth that there are only hard-won political solutions to conflict and this is no less true when empowering local forces to fight than when using our own—recognising this should be the starting point for UK foreign policy, both on paper and on the battlefield.

Image credit: U.S. Army photo by Sgt. Lisa Soy/Wikimedia Commons. 







Abigail Watson is a research officer at the Oxford Research Group’s Remote Warfare Programme. She researches and presents on the military, legal, and political implications of light-footprint warfare.




















This article was first published on The Strategy Bridge on December 5, 2018. 
As the British Government grapples with the mistakes of the Iraq War, key among the priorities moving forward has been a commitment to ensure military efforts are focused on  political goals. This has been evident in successive national strategies and doctrine, such as the 2011 Building Stability Overseas Strategy: “The chances of success are greatest when the international community gets behind a political settlement that lays the foundations for tackling the causes of conflict in a country.”
Major efforts have been made to institutionalise this commitment, most visible of which has been the creation of the National Security Council which brings together military, political, development, and economic stakeholders once a week to discuss national priorities. While these changes have been substantial, 18 months of interviews and roundtables with experts from academia, civil society, the government, and the military—both in the UK and on operation—suggest that many are skeptical about whether the UK can deliver real change.
This wariness may, in part, be explained by a recent shift in military engagement. Faced with declining military budgets and continued terrorist threats abroad, the UK like many of its allies, has increasingly engaged through light footprint military intervention. This approach, which we refer to as remote warfare has been called a number of other things by academics and commentators, including surrogate and vicarious warfare. It sees the UK and its allies playing a supporting role—providing air support, training, equipment, and intelligence to local and regional actors who do the bulk of frontline fighting against terrorist groups in places like Yemen, Somalia, Iraq, Syria, and Libya. These operations lack the same level of public and parliamentary oversight as conventional deployments and have allowed the UK to engage militarily with little external debate.
In an era of high political, military, and economic risk aversion this may seem like an appealing way to intervene against potential threats abroad. Added to this, the high-profile, territorial defeat of the Islamic State has done much to reassure critics that this model of engagement can work. However, these same campaigns also provide cautionary tales. Despite efforts to address the broader causes of instability, the current use of remote warfare has been predominantly military-focused and counter-terrorism oriented, often to the detriment of broader political efforts.
At its most basic, remote warfare refers to the countering of threats at a distance, without the deployment of large military forces. In this sense, the remoteness comes from a country’s military being one step removed from the frontline fighting—which tends to be carried out by local groups or regional coalitions. While it involves security force assistance, it is also focussed on countering an adversary; the UK provides a lot of assistance to allies that cannot be sensibly characterised as warfare—for example the majority arms sales, joint exercises, and so on are designed and delivered in relative peacetime for a whole range of reasons other than assisting frontline fighting.

Similarly, remote warfare is not necessarily carried out via remote weapons systems. While drone strikes, air strikes, cyber attacks, or autonomous weapons no doubt have the potential to increase the physical distance between operator and target, they can be used to support any sort of operation. In short, the remote in remote warfare speaks more to strategic than physical distance. In the following section we will sketch out what this means for where we can see remote warfare in action.
UK support to Kurdish forces in Iraq and Syria can be seen as remote warfare, because the UK is supporting actions through the supply of arms, training, advice, and assistance. In the event of a large scale deployment of British troops to combat IS, where troops were assigned combat roles and rules of engagement (ROEs) and undertake the bulk of frontline fighting this would cease to be remote warfare, at least for the purposes of our work.
In some senses, this approach may appear to support broader British efforts to build sustainable peace in places it intervenes; certainly, the logic of the Building Stability Overseas Strategy appears to be that building partner capacity now will allow local forces to provide security in their countries and regions more autonomously in the future. The strategy states, “Effective and accountable military and police forces can also play a role in regional and global stability” but notes that this will require “support to build the capacity of security forces [to] be matched with efforts to build accountability, legitimacy and respect for human rights.”
Recent campaigns against the Islamic State indicate that it is here that there is a tension with the current use of remote warfare: most of the military activity in contemporary campaigns—including the training and equipping of local forces—is focused on countering terrorism and, thus, short-term objectives are likely to take priority. This incentivises British decision-makers to pick local partners based on their ability to counter terrorist groups like Islamic State rather than assessing of which groups might help to build an effective, accountable, legitimate force that might improve long-term prospects for peace and security. This certainly appears to be the case in anti-Islamic State efforts in Iraq and Syria.
The British government has long emphasised the need for a long-term political solution to combat Islamic State in the Middle East. Former Defence Secretary, Sir Michael Fallon, said of the air campaign: “Airstrikes are only one component in a military strategy which must be accompanied by a political solution to deliver long-term peace and security to the region.” Indeed, alongside providing the second-largest military contribution to the anti-Islamic State coalition (behind the U.S.), the UK has shown leadership on broader issues of the conflict.
In Iraq, the U.S., the UK, and Germany led talks on Peshmerga reform in 2017, aiming to strengthen the process of unifying Peshmerga brigades—which are split along party lines between the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan—under one Ministry of Peshmerga. The Conflict, Stability and Security Fund also reports a spend of £10,650,000 on programmes in Iraq for 2017-18, with efforts focusing on stabilisation, community reintegration, advisory, and governance support. In Syria, the UK was one of the first to respond to the humanitarian crisis caused by the civil war and has since committed to spending £271 million on the country in its 2018/19 planned budget. Even with an entrenched Assad government and the Iranian-Russian-Turkish counterforce in the region, the UK and France have called on the U.S. to “form a long-term strategy aimed at a cease fire and a political settlement.”
However, alongside these political efforts, military operations in both countries have been short-term, militarily-orientated, and predominantly focused on counter-terrorism. At times these efforts have not only been in tension with the political objectives set by the UK Government but appear to be actively undermining them.
Military operations have dramatically cut the territorial gains of the Islamic State; however, as Robert Malley, vice president for policy at the International Crisis Group, notes the gaze of the local and regional partners that the UK and its allies worked with to achieve these aims “was fixed on the wars after the war against the Islamic State.” Thus, in emboldening these groups to defeat the Islamic State, the West may have sewn greater instability in the region, especially as these partners begin to refocus on their long-term goals.
In Iraq, the UK has provided extensive support to Peshmerga forces “[a]s part of … the Global Coalition to counter Daesh.” In evidence to the UK Foreign Affairs Committee, the Foreign Office describes how the UK has trained 57, 000 members of the Iraqi Security Forces, including 9,000 Peshmerga fighters; gifted £3 million of arms and ammunition to the Peshmerga; and provided air support to the Peshmerga as part of the Coalition. In field research for the Oxford Research Group’s most recent report, many high-level officials complained that there was insufficient focus on the post-Islamic State phase throughout the campaign, including when it came to the impact of this support.
An effect of this short-sightedness was evident in the violence in Kirkuk in October 2017, when Iraqi forces retook the city in response to the Kurdish independence referendum. This has threatened to push national divisions back to pre-Islamic State levels. Strong support for both the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdistan Democratic Party in the May 2018 general elections (allegations of voter fraud notwithstanding), plus their strong performance in September’s (again contested) Iraqi Kurdistan parliamentary elections, suggest that neither party will feel under pressure to move forward with Peshmerga reform in the near future. Similarly, accusations that Patriotic Union of Kurdistan forces had abandoned Kurdistan Democratic Party leader and then-President of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region Masoud Barzani during the violence in Kirkuk and, more recently, threats from smaller Kurdish groups like Gorran to create their own armed self-defence forces risk undermining nascent unity between Kurdish groups.
Groups like the Peshmerga have been essential to the fight against Islamic State; however, their empowerment throughout the course of the campaign now threatens to weaken the unity of an already fragmented Iraqi security sector. Now, many Iraqis had begun claiming that the Iraqi Army “is lucky if it can be considered the fourth-strongest army in Iraq—behind, Kurdistan’s Peshmerga forces, the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF, largely Shia paramilitaries) and Iraqi tribal fighters.”
Similar problems are evident in Syria where the UK and its allies have supported the Syrian Democratic Forces. The Syrian Democratic Forces began life as the Kurdish-dominated People's Protection Units (Yekîneyên Parastina Gel or YPG), who forged a relationship with the international anti-Islamic State coalition when the Islamic State moved to take Kobani, a Syrian Kurdish town on the border with Turkey, in September 2014. With allied air support to Kurdish fighters on the ground, Islamic State suffered significant casualties and the siege of the town was successfully broken. As commentators note, this was the moment when “an operational relationship was born. The midwife was tactical necessity. Larger issues of national security objectives, overall strategy for Syria, and an important bilateral relationship with a NATO partner were made subordinate to the singular focus on attacking ISIS.
While working with these local groups has greatly helped U.S. and UK efforts in the fight against Islamic State, with some senior U.S. officials saying that many of its operations would not have been possible without local eyes and ears on the ground, it has had a number of broader implications. Within Syria, this relationship has increased tensions between Kurds and Arabs. As Haid Haid, of Chatham House, notes, “Many Syrian Arabs saw the Syrian Democratic Force’s attack on rebel-held areas …as a Kurdish pretext to take advantage of U.S. support and expand their territories in areas where Arabs are a majority.” The Syrian Democratic Forces and its political affiliate, the Syrian Democratic Council, have set up bureaucratic structures in liberated territory; however, Crisis Group argues, “Outside majority-Kurdish areas … [the People's Protection Units] governance model appears fragile.” They describe efforts “to achieve Arab buy-in to its project” as “partial and haphazard” rather than “meaningful.” Haid goes further, stating: “Reported violations committed by some Kurdish groups against Arab communities, have led to ethnic tensions between local communities.”
Recent campaigns in Iraq and Syria reveal both the drivers towards, and the dangers of, remote warfare. In Iraq and Syria, this approach has allowed Western governments to greatly reduce the territorial gains of the Islamic State with a limited military footprint and lower political and economic cost; however, in doing so, it has, at times, appeared to undermine political efforts at building lasting peace.
While forces in both countries have rolled back the Islamic State they have left behind a fragmented Iraqi security sector struggling to provide security to the population and exacerbated the fracturing of Syrian society, with few prospects for uniting those that defeated the Islamic State with the population they now plan to control. Added to this, the U.S. Department of Defense stated in August 2018 that the Islamic State retains nearly 30,000 fighters across Iraq and Syria, which continue to threaten fractured national security sectors.
This indicates how choosing partners most able to tackle terrorist groups—rather than most likely to provide accountable and legitimate security—will do little to operationalise the objectives of documents like the Building Stability Overseas Strategy or deliver on UK ambitions of achieving a longer-term, political settlement in the places the UK intervenes. And, in fact, even before these bold ambitions the worsening instability and continued threat of terrorism in the region raise serious questions about the full cost of this approach, in both blood and treasure.
Conversations with those in and around Whitehall and the National Security Council, indicated that they were not unaware of the complexities of the situations they were intervening in, nor did the negative consequences of British action appear unforeseen. Rather, many spoke of the fact that the UK did not have enough political mandate or influence over coalition operations to do anything differently. Whatever the truth, when military and political efforts not only appear in tension but at odds this is surely bad strategy—and does not build much confidence in new mechanisms like the National Security Council that are meant to  synchronise efforts across government.
Moreover, the solution is rarely the route of least political resistance. The limited footprint and almost complete lack of British casualties of remote warfare has, for the most part, spared the UK government from intense scrutiny or public protest, but, this relative opacity also appears to be hindering attempts to reform the British strategic decision-making process. A frank and honest debate about the risk of intervention is essential to avoiding mistakes of the past. This is the only way to ensure key stakeholders—such as the military, departments within Whitehall, Parliament, non-governmental organizations, and civil society—can speak truth to power when British objectives diverge.
It is an enduring truth that there are only hard-won political solutions to conflict and this is no less true when empowering local forces to fight than when using our own—recognising this should be the starting point for UK foreign policy, both on paper and on the battlefield.
Image credit: U.S. Army photo by Sgt. Lisa Soy/Wikimedia Commons. 
Abigail Watson is a research officer at the Oxford Research Group’s Remote Warfare Programme. She researches and presents on the military, legal, and political implications of light-footprint warfare.




Published:
6th December, 2018


Updated:
7th February, 2019


Author:
Alasdair McKay

Leaders across the Africa have recognised the need to develop policies that will mitigate climate change and allow the continent to adapt to the effects which are already being felt.
This primer explains the Responsibility to Protect concept, including its origins, applications and critiques.
ORG is seeking an experienced and dynamic fundraiser to join its team in London. Working closely with ORG’s Senior Management Group, the post-holder will lead in refining and implementing ORG’s fundraising strategy and campaigns with a primary focus on raising and sustaining unrestricted revenues, including through targeted proposals, special events, campaigns and personal outreach. Apply by 16th April.
Based on field research conducted in Africa with British and international military personnel, this brief focusses on the military contribution to UK efforts in Kenya, Mali and Nigeria.
This primer explains the Responsibility to Protect concept, including its origins, applications and critiques.
Based on field research conducted in Africa with British and international military personnel, this brief focusses on the military contribution to UK efforts in Kenya, Mali and Nigeria.
March saw the eradication of the last scrap of the Islamic State movement’s Caliphate in Syria and Iraq after a five-year struggle. It did not witness the destruction of the movement, which new data shows remains highly active in Iraq, Syria and two dozen other countries. This briefing assesses the evolution of IS in Iraq and Syria and its re-emergence in Africa and Asia.
Distinguished scholar and Sahel specialist Bruno Charbonneau critically examines the 2013 French military intervention in Mali and the peacekeeping initiative which followed.
From 28 February to 1 March, the Remote Warfare Programme held a two day conference entitled ‘Conceptualising Remote Warfare: The Past, Present and Future’. This panel discusses the legality and transparency of remote warfare.
From 28 February to 1 March, the Remote Warfare Programme held a two day conference entitled ‘Conceptualising Remote Warfare: The Past, Present and Future’.  This panel discusses the key theoretical issues surrounding the use of remote warfare.
As special forces are increasingly used in actions overseas, and face growing questions about accountability and resources,  it is time for the UK government to abandon its outdated attitude and allow for the democratic oversight of special forces in Parliament.
Oxford Research Group’s Remote Warfare Programme submitted evidence to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee’s (PACAC) inquiry recently,  looking at the British Parliament’s role in authorising the use of military force.
The Remote Warfare Programme's Liam Walpole and Megan Karlshoej-Pedersen sit down with Dr. Larry Lewis to discuss working with strategic military partners and civilian casualties.
The Remote Warfare Programme provides its monthly update on the developments in UK defence and security policy.
Young people are frequently ‘othered’ in discussions about conflict. This is a dangerous practice as youths can play a very positive role aiding peacebuilding in societies recovering from conflict.
Some stories say that local economies benefit from cartels in Mexico. But research suggests that the areas most plagued by drug-related violence have seriously suffered economically.
Oxford Research Group (ORG) is an independent organisation that has been influential for over 35 years in pioneering new, more strategic approaches to security and peacebuilding. Based in London since 2006, ORG continues to pursue cutting edge research and advocacy in the United Kingdom and abroad while managing innovative peacebuilding projects in several Middle Eastern countries.
This report is a first attempt to identify some of the factors that have helped or hindered the UK’s current approach to remote warfare.
The Higaonon, an indigenous tribe in Northern Mindanao in the southern Philippines, have preserved an ancient system of conflict resolution which has enabled them to be a truly peaceful community. However, there is a need to ensure that this knowledge is not lost in the future.
Several diplomatic efforts have been made both domestically and internationally to enhance peaceful unity since the start of the Cyprus Problem. Despite the shortcomings of past efforts, it is still desirable not only to resolve the issue, but also to do so in a timely manner.
Over the past two decades, the United Nations Security Council has responded more strongly to some humanitarian crises than to others. This variation in Security Council action raises the important question of what factors motivate United Nations intervention.
This report supports an enhanced role for Britain in UN peace operations and sets out a case for greater engagement.
In this interview, Dr. Michael Nest discusses the political, environmental, ethical and social issues surrounding the mining of columbite–tantalite (coltan).
China's increased involvement in United Nations (UN) peacekeeping in Africa reflects a broader trend of the country taking a more proactive approach to foreign policy.
Support Oxford Research Group and help us develop and promote non-violent alternatives to current security issues.
Subscribe for the latest updates from ORG Sign up
Oxford Research GroupThe Green House244-254 Cambridge Heath RoadLondonE2 9DA
Charity no. 299436Company no. 2260840
Email us
020 3559 6745
Four teenagers are in police custody as officers investigate a reported assault at Alton Towers.
The four, aged 13, 14, and two 15-year-olds, all from Liverpool, were arrested on suspicion of assault on Thursday.
Police were called to the site just after 4pm by security staff.
A 15-year-old boy, from the Dudley area, was airlifted to the Royal Derby Hospital. He sustained facial injuries and his condition is described as stable.
An investigation into the circumstances of the incident is now underway.
Witnesses are asked to contact Staffordshire Police on 101, quoting incident number 527 of June 16.
Operação:
Categoria(s) Clique para Escolher:
Faixa de Valores R$:
Cidade:
Bairro(s) Clique para Escolher:
Quartos:
Garagem:
Código/Referência:
Venda
Aluguel
 Saiba Mais
 Links Úteis
 Indicadores
[69] Casa para Venda em IGARAPE


function enviarEmail() { $("#sendByEmail").click(); }
 Imprimir |
			 Enviar por e-mail |				
			 Adicionar nos favoritos

CASA EM CONDOMINIO FECHADO - PORTARIA 24 HORAS E LAZER COMPLETO
Casa com 4 quartos , sendo 3 em baixo com 2 semi suites e um banheiro social , em cima suite MASTER . Sala ampla para 3 ambientes , cozinha grande com revestimento moderno e bancadas de granito , área de tanque no fundo .
Área de lazer com Sauna com linda vista em blindex , Piscina , area de churrasco e campo de futebol e volei .
Lote com 1.000 m²    
Mais informações e para agendar visita : 3128-6157 - 9868-5642 watsapp
Imóvel para
Venda
Categoria
Casa
Finalidade
Condominio fechado
Cidade
IGARAPE
Bairro/Região
Canarinho
Dormitórios
4 (2 Suítes)
Banheiros
3
Garagem
5
Área Total
1.000,00 m2
Área Box
520,00 m2
Valor Imóvel
R$ 1.000.000,00
Características:
Acesso asfaltado, Acesso para deficientes, Campo de futebol, Churrasqueira, Jardim, Piscina, Portaria 24 horas
Recursos Locais:
Creche, Escola, Linha de Ônibus
Redes Sociais




Entre em Contato / Informações / Propostas:
Nome

E-mail

Telefone

Cidade

Mensagem

 

Confira também outros imóveis:
Casa Geminada
Canarinho
IGARAPE

 3 | 
						 3 | 					
					R$ 150.000,00
Mais Informações
Casa
Pousada Del Rey
IGARAPE

 4 | 
						 0 | 					
					R$ 210.000,00
Mais Informações
Lote
Novo Igarapé
IGARAPE

 0 | 
						 0 | 					
					R$ 70.000,00
Mais Informações
Sobre Nós
Vendas Diretas Imoveis 
Elisangela ou Romualdo - CRECI: 28743
Avenida Maria Moreira Alves da Rocha nº 148  , Novo Igarapé , Igarapé MG - Cep: 32900-000

Entre em Contato


					(31) 31286157					Vivo



					(31) 98342665					Vivo



					(31) 98685642					Vivo



					(31) 986612938					Oi

Redes Sociais
 
South Florida's housing bust appears to be over, but mortgage fraud investigators are still busy.
A real estate agent and her sister were indicted by a federal grand jury on Tuesday, accused of submitting fraudulent mortgage applications to buy condominiums at a Fort Lauderdale development.
In another case, Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi's office said it obtained a temporary injunction and asset freeze against a Broward County company that allegedly defrauded struggling homeowners.
The Fort Lauderdale-Miami area had the nation's third-highest number of reports of mortgage loan fraud during the 2011 fiscal year, according to a report released this summer by LexisNexis. Los Angeles was first and New York second.
Industry observers say the large numbers of investors and foreclosed properties make Florida a target for housing-related fraud. "It's rampant," Sunrise real estate lawyer Gary Singer said Wednesday.
Marina Superlano and Marisa Perez are were arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud. They face penalties that include up to 20 years in prison and $250,000 in fines.
The defendants participated in a 2007 scheme that recruited buyers at Marina Oaks Condominiums with promises of lucrative incentives, a rental income program and as much as $60,000 back after closing, according to the indictment.
"When buyers did purchase multiple units their loan applications were expedited and intentionally directed to different lenders to avoid detection," according to the indictment. "The multiple purchases were intentionally and fraudulently not listed or cross-referenced on any of the individual loan applications submitted to the various lenders."
Bear Stearns Residential Mortgage Corp. and Homecomings Financial loaned more than $359,000 based on the fraudulent applications, the indictment said. Attorneys involved in the case could not be reached. 
Meanwhile, Bondi's complaint names Edward Cherry, Lawrence Diodato, Paul Gellenbeck, Shane Frankovic and Anthony C. Pintsopoulos. Their Florida Home Rescue Mission and related firms charged up-front fees of $3,500, promising homeowners that their "underwater" mortgages would be voided, according to the complaint.
"This mortgage relief scam targeted hundreds of distressed homeowners who were already facing financial hardship," Bondi said in a statement. "By obtaining a temporary injunction and asset freeze, we have stopped this company from preying on even more of Florida's homeowners."
Florida Home Rescue executives could not be reached for comment.
The temporary injunction bars the company from doing business as alleged in the complaint. Bondi is seeking restitution for all consumers allegedly hurt by the company.
Powers@tribune.com, 561-243-6529 or Twitter @paulowers
The hit reality show 'Swamp People' in in full swing of their sixth season and tonight episode five of the season airs.
This season all the gator hunters are out for a 10 thousand dollar bounty that a local buyer has put out for the season for whomever can bring in the biggest gator.  So far, Junior Edwards has the biggest gator at 11 foot 6 inches.
Tonight's episode is called 'Pirate of the Bayou' and one of the teams is going after an elusive gator they have been trying to catch for years and the gator only has one eye.
From the History channel website, here is what tonight's show is about.
One team goes after a brash, one-eyed gator they have been after for years. Another hunter is forced to hunt alone and engages an aggressive bull gator that has been tripping his lines and bending his hooks, while another team has to hunt down a greedy gator that keeps stealing the bait off their lines.
 
'Swamp People' airs on Monday night's on the History Channel and airs at 8 p.m. Central time.
4 oktober 2016
Een Kamermeerderheid wil dat de politie straks camerabeelden van kentekens veel langer kan gebruiken dan gepland. Volgens De Telegraaf dienen VVD en PvdA hier samen een wetswijziging voor in.

Straks mogen beelden een half jaar lang bewaard blijven bij de politie. Minister Ard van der Steur van Veiligheid en Justitie heeft voorgesteld gebruik van deze informatie tot vier weken te beperken. Dat leverde hem al kritiek op van privacy-organisaties.
Boven toegangswegen tot grotere steden hangen camera’s die automatisch kentekens van alle passerende voertuigen lezen. Het zogeheten ANPR-systeem herkent kentekens die om één of andere reden gesignaleerd staan. Bovendien kan in een databank worden teruggezocht welke auto wanneer op welke plek was, wat van belang kan zijn in opsporingsonderzoek. De politie maakt er veel gebruik van.
Het huidige wetsvoorstel van het kabinet is volgens VVD en PvdA niet praktisch, bijvoorbeeld als de politie langer nodig heeft om een ernstig misdrijf op te lossen. De bedoeling is dat de voorgestelde uitbreiding alleen geldt voor misdrijven waarop langer dan acht jaar gevangenisstraf staat, zoals moord, verkrachting of terrorisme. In het voorstel is wel begrepen dat er een rechterlijke toets noodzakelijk wordt voor het gebruik.
Verder willen de regeringspartijen ook advocaten de mogelijkheid geven de databank te raadplegen om hun zo de gelegenheid te geven te beargumenteren dat een client die verdachte is van zware misdrijven juist ergens anders was tijdens het delict.

Location



Choose Date



Start Time



Duration



Room 1 - Premium DJ
Pioneer CDJ-2000NXS2, Pioneer DJM-900NXS2, Stagg SDM60 vocal microphone + stand, Heating/AC
Sun Feb 17, 2019 7pm - 10pm




$45.00



NEW OFF PEAK PRICING!
Off Peak (before 3pm): $10/hour
Peak (after 3pm): $15/hour
(Excluding weekends)

Selected timespan unavailable.


Room 2 - Classic
1 x guitar head & cab, 1 x guitar combo, 1 x bass head & cab, 5 piece drums & cymbals, 5 x mics & 3 x stands, AC & heating
Sun Feb 17, 2019 7pm - 10pm




$45.00



This room is equipped with an OpenLIVE recording system and will automatically record, mix and master your session if enabled.
Would you like a free recording of your session, available to edit, download and share in the cloud after your session?
Please note that sessions will not be refunded should there be a problem with the OpenLIVE recording.

Selected timespan unavailable.


Room 3 - Pirate
1 x guitar head & cab, 1 x guitar combo, 1 x bass head & cab, 5 piece drums & cymbals, 1 x keyboard, 5 x mics & 3 x stands, AC & heating
Sun Feb 17, 2019 7pm - 10pm




$60.00



This room is equipped with an OpenLIVE recording system and will automatically record, mix and master your session if enabled.
Would you like a free recording of your session, available to edit, download and share in the cloud after your session?
Please note that sessions will not be refunded should there be a problem with the OpenLIVE recording.

Selected timespan unavailable.

“He wouldn’t have done that to the male lead,” actress says of butt-slapping incident
Anna Faris has come forward with her own story of sexual harassment in Hollywood, outlining on her latest podcast the abuse she suffered at the hands of an unnamed director on the set of a film she shot earlier in her career.
“I was doing a scene where I was on a ladder and I was supposed to be taking books off a shelf and he slapped my ass in front of the crew so hard,” said Faris on her “Unqualified” podcast Tuesday. “And all I could do was giggle.”
In the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal and revelations about director James Toback, Faris’ podcast addressed the recent #MeToo social media movement. The “Mom” star added she felt she had to play along with the harassment.
Also Read: Colbert, Trump Role-Play Condolence Calls in Recut Maria Bartiromo Interview (Video)
“I remember looking around and I remember seeing the crew members being like, ‘Wait, what are you going to do about that? That seemed weird.’ And that’s how I dismissed it. I was like, ‘Well, this isn’t a thing. Like, it’s not that big of a deal. Buck up, Faris. Like, just giggle,'” the actress said.
“But it made me feel small,” she said. “He wouldn’t have done that to the lead male.”
Faris said the harassment was compounded by unprofessional comments from the director.
“I remember that same director telling my agent, who told me, that I had great legs and that was one of the reasons that I got hired,” said Faris. “And listen, that’s a f—ing great compliment. I like my legs.
“But that sort of informed my whole experience with that whole project,” she added. “I don’t think the male lead got hired because he had great legs. Therefore I felt like I’m hired because of these elements — not because of [talent].”
Also Read: LA Times Reporter: Nearly 200 Women Have Reached Out After James Toback Expose
To listen to the entire conversation between Faris and actress Arielle Kebbel, check out the audio below.

In the wake of two bombshell reports detailing the sexual harassment, assault and rape allegations against Harvey Weinstein, dozens and dozens of stars have come out to publicly condemn the powerhouse producer and co-founder of Miramax and The Weinstein Company.
Ashley Judd was one of the first women to come forward in the initial New York Times report. Judd told the Times that she was invited to Weinstein's hotel room, where he repeatedly asked for inappropriate contact such as massages. "I said no, a lot of ways, a lot of times, and he always came back at me with some new ask," she said. "It was all this bargaining, this coercive bargaining."
Gwyneth Paltrow was nicknamed "The First Lady of Miramax" after starring in "Emma" and "Shakespeare in Love," but in a follow-up report by the Times, Paltrow revealed that Weinstein also made inappropriate advances toward her when she was 22. "I was a kid, I was signed up [for 'Emma], I was petrified," she said. "I thought he was going to fire me."
Angelina Jolie told the New York Times in an email that she had a "bad experience" with Weinstein as a young actress, but provided no further details, simply adding that she "chose never to work with him again and warn others when they did." "This behavior towards women in any field, any country is unacceptable," she said.
Rose McGowan was named in the initial New York Times report as having reached a $100,000 settlement with Weinstein "after an episode in a hotel room during the Sundance Film Festival" in 1997. The actress, who starred in "Scream" for Miramax in 1996, has repeatedly condemned Weinstein and his enablers since the story first broke, and has launched a petition to have the board of The Weinstein Company dissolved. She also accused her "Going All the Way" co-star Ben Affleck of covering up Weinstein's behavior.
Asia Argento was one of three women who said they were raped by Weinstein in a bombshell New Yorker report by Ronan Farrow. The star of Miramax's 1998 crime drama "B. Monkey" said she was lured to Weinstein's hotel room under the false pretense of a party, where he requested a massage and forcibly performed oral sex on her. She said she remained friendly with Weinstein, including a continuing sexual relationship, for fear that speaking out would cost her career. "When I see him, it makes me feel little and stupid and weak." she said. "After the rape, he won."
Rosanna Arquette told the New Yorker that Weinstein lured her to his hotel room where he exposed himself to her, grabbed her hand and tried to place it on his penis. "I'm not that girl. I will never be that girl," she said she told him after he threatened her career. "He's going to be working very hard to track people down and silence people," she said. "To hurt people. That's what he does."
Mira Sorvino starred in multiple Weinstein films, including 1995's "Mighty Aphrodite," for which she won an Academy Award. The actress told The New Yorker that Weinstein repeatedly harassed her when they were working together, saying she "must have said no a thousand times." She also confessed that she believes her rejection of Weinstein's advances cost her work. "There may have been other factors, but I definitely felt iced out and that my rejection of Harvey had something to do with it," she said.
Cara Delevingne, who appeared in The Weinstein Company's "Tulip Fever," described her own experience of being sexually harassed by Weinstein in an Instagram post. "I felt very powerless and scared but didn't want to act that way, hoping that I was wrong about the situation," she wrote, saying that guilt and fear kept her from speaking out sooner.
Kate Beckinsale came forward to describe her own "uneasy" encounter with Weinstein in which the producer invited the then-17-year-old to his hotel room, greeted her in his bathrobe and offered her alcohol. She said Weinstein approached her years later to ask if he had "tried anything" with her during their first meeting. "I realized he couldn't remember if he had assaulted me or not," she wrote.
Léa Seydoux described being sexually harassed by Weinstein in an interview with The Guardian. The "Blue Is the Warmest Colour" star said she met the producer at his hotel room while they were both in Paris, and said Weinstein “suddenly jumped on me and tried to kiss me," forcing her to physically resist him. "Everyone knew what Harvey was up to and no one did anything," she said. "It’s unbelievable that he’s been able to act like this for decades and still keep his career.”
George Clooney called Weinstein's actions "indefensible" in an interview with The Daily Beast. Weinstein helped launch Clooney's film career with 1996's "From Dusk Till Dawn," but the actor said he never witnessed the behavior first-hand and dismissed the rumors that swirled around the powerhouse producer for decades. "We've had dinners, we've been on location together, we've had arguments. But I can tell you that I've never seen any of this behavior -- ever," he said.
Benedict Cumberbatch, who stars in The Weinstein Company's "The Current War," said in a statement that he was "utterly disgusted" by Weinstein's "horrifying and unforgivable actions." He called on everyone in the industry to stand up for women and victims of sexual abuse. "Others may be emboldened by our support to come forward and speak. But we shouldn't wait until there are any more stories like this," he said. "There has to be zero tolerance of any such behavior in any walk of life."
Leonardo DiCaprio, who worked with Weinstein on a number of films including "The Aviator," "Django Unchained," and "Gangs of New York," issued a statement on Facebook condemning sexual harassment and assault, but stopped short of naming Weinstein or referring to the allegations made against him directly. "I applaud the strength and courage of the women who came forward and made their voices heard," he wrote.
Kate Winslet called Weinstein's behavior "reprehensible and disgusting" in a statement to Variety, voicing unequivocal support for his accusers. ""I have no doubt that for these women this time has been, and continues to be extremely traumatic," she said. "I fully embrace and salute their profound courage." Winslet won an Oscar for the Weinstein-produced ""The Reader" in 2009.
Glenn Close said she was aware of the "vague rumors" that surrounded Weinstein in a statement to the New York Times, adding that she felt "angry and darkly sad" that they've now been substantiated. "I'm angry, not just at him and the conspiracy of silence around his actions, but also that the 'casting couch' phenomenon, so to speak, is still a reality in our business and in the world," she said.
Meryl Streep said in a statement to the Huffington Post that she "didn't know" about the allegations against Weinstein, despite starring in a number of his films, including "August: Osage County." "The behavior is inexcusable, but the abuse of power familiar," she said. "Each brave voice that is raised, heard and credited by our watchdog media will ultimately change the game."
Charlize Theron voiced support for the women who came forward with accusations against Weinstein on Instagram, saying that she wasn't surprised by the reports. "This culture has always existed, not just in Hollywood, but across the world," she wrote. "And many men in positions of power have gotten away with it for far too long. We cannot blame the victims here ... I want you all to know I support you."
Cate Blanchett, like her "Aviator" co-star Leonardo DiCaprio, stopped short of naming Weinstein in her statement condemning sexual harassment. "Any man in a position of power or authority who thinks it's his prerogative to threaten, intimidate or sexually assault any woman he encounters or works alongside needs to be called to account," she said.
Jennifer Lawrence won an Oscar for the Weinstein-produced "Silver Linings Playbook" in 2013, but the actress said in a statement that she was "deeply disturbed" by the allegations against him. "This kind of abuse is inexcusable and absolutely upsetting," she said. "My heart goes out to all of the women affected by these gross actions. And I want to thank them for their bravery to come forward."
 
Nicole Kidman issued a statement saying she supports all women "who speak out against any abuse and misuse of power -- be it domestic violence or sexual harassment in the workforce." Kidman has worked with Weinstein on a number of films, including "Cold Mountain," "The Others," "Nine" and last year's "Lion."
Mark Ruffalo, who has starred in multiple films produced by Weinstein, tweeted his condemnation of the producer, calling his actions "a disgusting abuse of power and horrible." He later elaborated in an interview with Channel 4, saying, "That s--- can't stand. And we have to call it out, even if it's in our own community."
 
Kevin Smith has a long history of working with Weinstein, including Miramax films like "Clerks" and "Chasing Amy." In a tweet, the filmmaker said he was "ashamed" of that partnership. "He financed the first 14 years of my career - and now I know while I was profiting, others were in terrible pain. It makes me feel ashamed," he wrote.
Jane Fonda told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that she's known about Weinstein's behavior since she was approached a year ago by her friend Rosanna Arquette, who later went public with her accusations in the New Yorker. "I'm ashamed that I didn't say anything right then," she said, explaining that she "didn't feel that it was [her] place" to speak out on someone' else's behalf.
 
Judi Dench earned a string of Oscar nominations for her work in Weinstein films, including "Mrs. Brown," "Chocolat," "Iris," "Notes on a Scandal" and "Shakespeare in Love." She once even had a Weinstein's name temporarily tattooed on her butt as a joke. In a statement to Newsweek, the actress said she was "completely unaware" of his behavior, calling it "horrifying."
Minnie Driver has starred in a number of Weinstein-produced films, most notably "Good Will Hunting," for which she received an Oscar nomination, but in a statement to Variety the actress said she never experienced abuse first-hand. "I think it's important to add my voice to those of women everywhere who have experienced abuse at the hands of powerful men," she said.
Lena Dunham condemned Weinstein as a "predator" in a scathing New York Times op-ed, also taking aim at men in Hollywood who remained silent about his behavior. "The reason I am zeroing in on the men is that they have the least to lose and the most power to shift the narrative, and are probably not dealing with the same level of collective and personal trauma around these allegations," she wrote.
Jessica Chastain said in a series of tweets that she was "warned from the beginning" about Weinstein and called on others to support victims and call out abuse. "Thank God for social media," she wrote. "Weinstein couldn't kill this wave of warriors working to keep this story alive. This has been very painful."
Matt Damon was once recruited by Weinstein to vouch for him when TheWrap's Sharon Waxman first tried to report a story about Weinstein's actions for the New York Times in 2004. In an interview with Deadline, he denied that he had any knowledge of abuse. "Even before I was famous, I didn't abide this kind of behavior," he said. "But now, as the father of four daughters, this is the kind of sexual predation that keeps me up at night. This is the great fear for all of us."
Ben Affleck, who worked with Weinstein on "Good Will Hunting," wrote in a statement on Facebook that he was "addened and angry that a man who I worked with used his position of power to intimidate, sexually harass, and manipulate women over decades." However, his "Going All the Way" co-star Rose McGowan later accused him of covering up for Weinstein in a tweet. "You lie," she wrote.
Penelope Cruz said she was "extremely sad and shocked" by the allegations against Weinstein in a statement to Buzzfeed. "I need to express my support to the women that have had such horrible experiences. They have shown great bravery by talking," said Cruz, who won an Oscar for The Weinstein Company's "Vicky Cristina Barcelona." "That kind of abuse of power is absolutely unacceptable."
 
Heather Graham wrote in an essay for Variety that Weinstein once made her an offer to trade sex for a role in one of his films, an offer she declined and never spoke about publicly. "My hope is that this moment starts a dialogue on redefining sexual harassment in the workplace and empowers women to speak out when they feel uncomfortable in a situation," she wrote.
Jamie Lee Curtis penned an op-ed in The Huffington Post in response to the accusation from Donna Karan that sexual harassment victims are "asking for it." Referring to Weinstein as a "brutish thug," Curtis shared that she had been subject to harassment throughout her own career despite never having asked for it. "Perhaps the truth will out other sexual harassment, be it from a governor or a president or a presidential candidate or studio head or movie star or executive or anyone else complicit in this billionaire boys club bulls--- that will come to an inglorious end," she wrote.
Iliza Shlesinger was set to publish her book "Girl Logic" with the Weinstein Books imprint at Hachette, but the stand-up comic condemned Weinstein's "deplorable behavior" in a statement on Twitter. "We owe it to ourselves as a community to no longer be complicit in this culture of misogyny," she wrote. "Things must change." Hachette later announced that it would shut down Weinstein Books and release all contracted books through other imprints.
Julianne Moore discussed the Weinstein scandal on MSNBC, saying she never had a problematic encounter with Weinstein personally, despite starring in multiple films for Miramax and The Weinstein Company. "I'm shocked," she said. "I think no one was aware that he had settled with eight different women and as we know, cases keep coming forward so this, to me, is completely egregious and shocking." She said individuals need to "speak up" to create a safe environment for accusers to come forward.
Emma Thompson called out Weinstein as a "predator" in an interview with BBC's "Newsnight."  "I didn't know about these things but they don't surprise me at all and they are endemic to the system anyway," she said. "There has been a conspiracy of silence and I think there will probably have been about a million and one missed opportunities to call this man out on his disgusting behavior."
Seth MacFarlane made a joke referencing Weinstein's sexual misconduct during an Oscars announcement in 2013. Following the reports about Weinstein's actions, the "Ted" star revealed that the joke "came from a place of loathing and anger" after a friend of his recounted her experience with Weinstein.
Ryan Coogler's debut feature "Fruitvale Station" was released by The Weinstein Company, but the director said in a statement to The Hollywood Reporter that he had no knowledge of the abuse or any further interaction with Weinstein. "As men we sit in positions of privilege. It is our responsibility to leverage our position, and be allies to the women in our industry," he said. "We need to do everything we can to make sure violations like these don't continue to happen."
 
 
John Madden, who directed Miramax's "Shakespeare In Love," said in a statement to Buzzfeed that Weinstein's actions "deserve total condemnation." He continued, "I applaud the women who have been brave enough to share their testimony of profoundly damaging and deeply abusive experiences."
Tamron Hall, the "Today" show alum who signed a deal with The Weinstein Company for her own talk show, told The Huffington Post that she called Weinstein directly for a "take no prisoners" phone call after the New York Times report. She called the behavior described by his accusers "horrifying" and said she was working with lawyers to figure out the "next steps" for her show. 
 
Alyssa Milano serves as host of "Project Runway: All Stars," a TV project produced by Weinstein. She said in a lengthy statement that she was "sickened" by the accusations, but adding that she was hopeful that bringing them to light would lead to change. "I'm happy -- ecstatic even -- that it has opened up a dialogue around the continued sexual harassment, objectification and degradation of women," she said. "Sexual harassment and assault in the workplace are not just about Harvey Weinstein. We must change things in general. We must do better for women everywhere."
Tom Hanks slammed Weinstein in an interview with the New York Times, calling the producer an "ass" and saying that the allegations made against him "fit" with Weinstein's publicly aggressive persona. "I know all kinds of people that just love hitting on, or making the lives of underlings some degree of miserable, because they can," he said. "They think their achievements entitle them."
Chris Hemsworth spoke out against Weinstein in an interview with TVNZ while promoting "Thor: Ragnarok." "It's horrible, it's awful, my heart goes out to anyone who suffered through that kind of abuse and experience," he said. "I hope it sheds a light on the issue and people don't continue to abuse their positions of power, and people aren't manipulated into situations they don't want to be a part of."
 
Viola Davis came out against Weinstein, who produced the film "Kate & Leopold," in a statement to Variety. "To the predators.. Weinstein, the stranger, the relative, the boyfriend," she wrote. "I say to you, 'You can choose your sin but you don't get to choose the consequences.' To the victims.... I see you. I believe you... and I'm listening."
Brie Larson's breakout role was as a sexual assault survivor in "Short Term 12," and the actress has been an outspoken advocate through the years, memorably hugging survivors at the Oscars and refusing to applaud for Casey Affleck. She reiterated her support in a tweet following the news about Weinstein. "As always, I stand with the brave survivors of sexual assault and harassment," she wrote. "It's not your fault. I believe you."
Emma Watson worked with Weinstein on "My Week with Marilyn" in 2011 and did not single out Weinstein in her condemnation of sexual harassment on Twitter following the New York Times report. "I stand with all the women who have been sexually harassed, and am awestruck by their bravery. This mistreatment of women has to stop," she wrote, adding that men can also be victims of sexual harassment.
Ryan Gosling starred in 2010's "All Good Things," which was produced by Weinstein, and in a statement on Twitter the actor said he was "deeply disappointed in [himself] for being so oblivious" to Weinstein's behavior. Noting that Weinstein is part of a "systemic problem, Gosling said called on men to "stand with women and work together until there is real accountability and change."
 
Seth Rogen came out in support of Weinstein's accusers in a tweet shortly after the initial New York Times report. "I believe all the women coming forward about Harvey Weinstein's sexual harassment," he wrote. "It takes bravery to do so."
Rebecca Hall appeared in multiple Weinstein films, including "Vicky Cristina Barcelona," and said she had previously heard rumors of his behavior but never experienced it first-hand. "I certainly was never allowed near a meeting with him on my own, and anything like that. In retrospect, I understand why, even if my representatives weren't explicitly telling me," she told IndieWire.
Paul Feig called Weinstein's behavior "reprehensible" in a series of interviews with The Guardian, later adding that an audio recording published by The New Yorker was "beyond disturbing." "Men need to speak up," the "Bridesmaids" director said. "This can't be women just speaking up. They need backup. It's a big sacrifice for women to come forward with this stuff. As we've seen over history, they are generally not rewarded for coming forward."
Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former Disney executive who worked with Weinstein after Miramax was bought by the company, publicly released an email he sent to Weinstein after the producer turned to him for help in the wake of the New York Times report. "You have done terrible things to a number of women over a period of years," he wrote to Weinstein. "I cannot in any way say this is OK with me.... It's not at all, and I am sickened by it, angry with you and incredibly disappointed in you."
 
Michael Eisner, the former Disney CEO who fired Weinstein and his brother Bob from running Miramax, called Harvey "an incorrigible bully" in a tweet, adding that he "had no idea he was capable of these horrible actions."
Bob Iger, the Disney CEO who served as president and COO when Weinstein's Miramax was acquired by the company, released a statement condemning Weinstein, saying that the producer's "reported behavior is abhorrent and unacceptable, and it has no place in our society."
 
Nancy Dubuc, the A+E Networks chief who's in business with The Weinstein Company on "Project Runway" and other TV properties, called Weinstein's behavior "disgusting and horrifying" in an interview with Variety. "One of the epidemics in our industry is the abuse of power," she said. "When it's pushed to extreme physical limits as in what we saw with Bill Cosby and what's coming out now (with Weinstein) it is particularly troubling."
Jeremy Zimmer, CEO of UTA, sent an internal memo to staff in the wake of the Weinstein scandal, calling it "disgusting" and saying he was "proud" of the UTA clients who stepped forward with their allegations against Weinstein. "Harvey earned his demise. And it should serve as a cautionary tale to anyone in our industry who believes moguls own their thrones," he wrote, encouraging staffers to report inappropriate behavior at the company.
Colin Firth starred in Weinstein's Oscar-winning "The King's Speech," said in a statement to The Guardian that he was given a "feeling of nausea" when reading the reports about Weinstein. "He was a powerful and frightening man to stand up to. It must have been terrifying for these women to step up and call him out. And horrifying to be subjected to that kind of harassment. I applaud their courage," he said.
Jeff Bridges addressed the allegations against Weinstein in an interview with the Associated Press. "It was a terrible thing he did," he said. "I wish him the best, struggling with his demons. But his behavior was terrible."
Gretchen Mol had been subject to a number of rumors about her relationship with Weinstein over the years, but the actress spoke out against those rumors in a guest column for The Hollywood Reporter. "The shameless behavior of this powerful man found shameless co-conspirators in people ... who then tried to push their foulness onto women who are blameless," she wrote. "I hope my colleagues, those women who have been affected by this abuse, can put this poison aside. We have no reason to feel ashamed."
Christian Slater shared a statement on Twitter, voicing support for the women making allegations against Weinstein and calling on men to support them. "No woman should fear for her safety in the workplace," he wrote. "No man should feel immune from the consequences of his actions. Accountability is essential to destroy the dangerous and persistent idea that some people are above the law."
 
Blake Lively discussed the allegations against Weinstein in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, calling them "devastating." "This exists everywhere so remember to look everywhere," she said. "This isn't a single incident. This cannot happen, this should not happen, and it happens in every single industry."
Robert Rodriguez has released several films with Weinstein, including "From Dusk Til Dawn," "Sin City" and "Spy Kids." The director released a statement calling the allegations against Weinstein "truly disturbing." "His repulsive behavior was an abuse of power," he said. "Thankfully, he's now discovering what true power is."
David Thewlis, who recently starred in Weinstein's adaptation of "Macbeth," issued a short statement to Buzzfeed saying, "Men like this who equate fame and power with the right to degrade women should be unequivocally condemned, shamed and be seen to suffer the consequences."
Chloe Sevigny made her film debut in the Weinstein-produced "Kids" in 1995. She condemned him in a statement to Buzzfeed, calling for "casting couch culture" to come to an end. "Every woman speaking her truth, and every person who supports that woman, will help that change," she said.
James Gunn shared a lengthy Facebook post titled "On Sexual Predators In Hollywood (and the World)" in the wake of the Weinstein scandal, condemning sexual predators in every industry. "When someone is coerced sexually it not only affectthat he was s that person, but the lives of those around that person, like rows of dominoes falling in every direction. It demolishes trust and comfort in all of society," he wrote. "F---. Them. All."
 
Lin-Manuel Miranda tweeted that he was "appalled and repulsed by the Weinstein news as anyone with a beating heart. And forever in awe of the bravery of those who spoke out." His "In the Heights" co-author Quiara Alegría Hudes later released a statement asking that The Weinstein Company allow them to extricate the film adaptation and take it to another company, a request Miranda co-signed.
Ewan McGregor called his "August: Osage County" collaborator a "bully" on Twitter saying that he had "heard rumors" about Weinstein through the years. "Weinstein. It's about time this came to light and he is getting just deserts," he wrote.
 
Collaborators denounce disgraced movie mogul over sexual misconduct allegations
In the wake of two bombshell reports detailing the sexual harassment, assault and rape allegations against Harvey Weinstein, dozens and dozens of stars have come out to publicly condemn the powerhouse producer and co-founder of Miramax and The Weinstein Company.
MEMBER CONTENT
MEMBER CONTENT
MEMBER CONTENT
MEMBER CONTENT
The blog seems to be down, so I suppose I’ll write my reply here. It took me the better part of the day to ponder the matter, and ultimately what I’ve written here is quite blunt and brutally honest. I’ve done my best to write this in a way that applies to you specifically, yet the reasons are really quite universal. Frankly though, I highly doubt you’ll derive much help for them, let alone appreciate them.
The one thing I won’t give you in this message is any justification or garbage about economic systems, how piracy promotes sales or any such jargon. It’s just my reasons, and mine alone. As for myself personally, I’m well past a decade beyond my teens, and my financial situation is quite stable and comfortable, as is my employment. I use Winblows out of necessity, but I comfortably know my way around OSX and multiple flavors of Linux.
I’ll start with the “why”. There’s multiple elements to it, but the most basic element is “Because I can” and “Because there’s better things to spend my money on.” I understand you’re a small developer and every sale probably means quite a bit to you, but on the other hand I certainly don’t want to spend money if I don’t have to. If I have the choice not to, then the choice to actually pay for your software is basically charity. At least you’ve got that going for you, whereas purchasing a big developer’s software feels much like lighting dollar bills on fire.
The cheapskate part is only just one small facet. There’s also a bit of perverse fun behind it, and to explain that, let me give an analogy. Have you ever repaired a broken device so that you didn’t have to go buy a new one? Was it satisfying in figuring out how it worked and eventually managing to successfully fix it? Well, software is the same thing. Demo software is “broken”. Cracking it is “fixing” it.
The mere act of cracking a program – or hunting one down if I don’t want to spend the time to make it myself – is a game in itself, and a very satisfying one at that . That joy is doubled when the information on how to do it is shared, plus there’s that noble, warm-fuzzy feeling of having helped out others. When a game is cracked, I’ve won the game. My reward is the privilege of playing the program freely. Heck, there have even been games I cracked but never bothered playing. The appreciation I received from those who used the crack gives a more satisfying feeling than anything a game is capable of giving.
Sometimes it’s not even worth the time, but will spend the time to do it anyway. For example, games for Palm PDAs are generally in the $5 or $7 range. It took 4 hours to crack the most recent one. If time is money, that’s not even close to minimum wage, yet it still felt worth the time. Why? Again, for the challenge, and because paying for a program is like admitting I lost, which is very pride damaging. It’d be more preferable to delete the program and live without it than to pay for it.
Now for price. Quite simply, I hardly even notice the price of most games. Most times I just go straight to bittorrent after hearing about it. If I can’t crack it or find the crack to it, then it’s dead to me, at least for the time being. If I really need it and it’s beyond my skill to crack, there’s someone who WILL do so eventually. I can wait.
I know yours aren’t console games, but I’ll discuss those a bit. Console games are obviously a bit of a different matter because now there’s hardware mechanisms involved which hinder game copying, and they’re pretty effective. Believe it or not, there’s actually a small positive for gamers in that. How, you ask? Because those used games hold a resale value, whereas PC games hold zilch. That makes me feel a little less bitter about paying for a game because I can now recoup some of that back when I’m done with it.
I’ve got a nice stack of legit console games, almost all of them used. $17 is the drop-dead maximum I’ll pay on ebay after tax and shipping. The only games I bought new (yet on sale for under $25) were ones I deemed collectible. They’re still shrink-wrapped and will never be opened, and for playing purposes I obtained cheap ex-rental copies. The fact that the big developers want to curtail used game sales pisses me off to red visioned, acid spitting proportions, and their insistence that I should be paying an astonishing $40 to $50 (and on most new PS3 games, $60!) for something I’ll get barely a month’s usage is enraging. I’m even more pissed at gamers who have allowed those price points to be sustainable.
As for your game, Democracy 2, I suppose if I wanted to give a copy to my tech-illiterate cousin as a gift and didn’t want to put him through the trouble of cracking it, $15 feels like the sweet spot to me. At $22.95 I’d be expecting it to arrive in the mail with a leather bound manual and a collectible tin, shipping included.
As you’ve obviously gathered, I have less than zero respect for the concept of paying for software, and my attitude is rather lacking in sympathy for pay-to-play developers and programmers, indie or otherwise. To be quite blunt, I equate developers griping over piracy to be on par with street performers who panhandle. If the art of writing programs is your joy, I commend you, but like other arts, best of luck in profiting from it, especially now. My opinion is that it’d be more worthwhile and morally satisfying to code under GPL, but ultimately it’s your call. If for-profit programming is the way you want to go, people like me come with the territory.
I’d happily make free games, but the bank still demands I pay my mortgage, and so do the power and water company.
Thats the problem.
Wow Ghosx, how incredibly cavalier.  I am always curious to know what people with this attitude do for a living and wonder if they would appreciate not getting paid for their efforts.
If you knew that you wouldn’t get caught would you do any of the following?
Eat in a restaurant and leave without paying?
Fill up with gas and drive away without paying?
Sneak into a movie theatre without paying?
Steal a book from the library?
Shoplift?
If you said no to all but still pirate software, why should it be any different?
If you have said yes to any of these you are morally bankrupt and are part of the reason why honest people are treated like criminals by the corporate world.
If you think of the cost associated with security, surveillance, anti-theft measures, anti-counterfeit methods, etc. you have to realize that the money to pay for it has to come from somewhere.  It stands to reason that things would be cheaper and easier to use if it weren’t for the bad apples.
Don’t get me wrong, I am no shining knight.  I would answer no to all of my own questions but admit that I have downloaded movies, music, and software.  The point I am trying to make is as much for my own benefit as it is for anyone else.
Why digital media and not anything else?  Is it because we can?  Is it just too easy?
The problem is that once you start cracking down on piracy you begin to impact your paying customers.
The challenge is there.  You can’t change the way people behave but you can change the way you provide your product.  The question is; can you do it without alienating the rest of your clients?
I’ll start with the “why”. There’s multiple elements to it, but the most basic element is “Because I can” and “Because there’s better things to spend my money on.” I understand you’re a small developer and every sale probably means quite a bit to you, but on the other hand I certainly don’t want to spend money if I don’t have to. If I have the choice not to, then the choice to actually pay for your software is basically charity. At least you’ve got that going for you, whereas purchasing a big developer’s software feels much like lighting dollar bills on fire.
I think Ghosx has a point, as morally bankrupt as it may be.
Just quickly where I stand on piracy, I’m not particularly well off (not poor either). So  I started downloading films rather than pay £13 each for me and the woman to go to the cinema, simple reason being is the cinema is having a laugh at £13 a go. Then I discovered I could download games too. This is not to say I do, but I can. I have acquired maybe 10 games this year, I have pirated 3 of those , Spore, Mass effects and Sim City Societies. SCS because I was expecting to not like the game, and was really after a demo, I did indeed delete the game, ME and Spore because I figure if your going to be treated like a criminal why not just pirate them. In both cases I can honesty say I would have bought them were it not for the DRM.
Side note: ME is a superb game, spore is utter garbage, clearly all the content has been removed to sell back to us in £20 expansion packs, I am really growing to despise EA.
Amazon f####d up with a copy of 3 in 1 Civilisation 4 complete, by selling at £6.98, so I snapped one up  before they put the price up again. The price was good, had they not, I would have probably download it as a demo, not expecting to like it. However, since I did like it,  I really have to wonder if Amazon had not screwed up the price and I did indeed download it rather than pay £30 would I have gone back and bought it after liking the downloaded game??
Stardock i love, their games and the fact that you get regular updates, plus with impulse being fast and efficient their offering is superior to any pirate copy.
The Witcher I bought, now if I had bought that through Stardock I would get the Enhanced edition free. But now the Enhanced edition is out and I bought the standard already they expect me to pay full price all over again??, Hmm let me stop and think about that.
Kudos I bought last night, where Ghosx has a point is that it is very easy to pirate, and unlike Stardock, I doubt there will be a regular stream of updates. So unlike Stardock the pirate copy and the original as a stand alone item are the same as each other.
That said, I respect the respect that Cliff has for gamers, and I enjoyed Kudos so I will also buy the Starship tycoon one too. The only point I wanted to make is that while Stardocks downloads are superior to the pirate versions (regular content updates). I’m guessing that these ones are the same as the pirate copies. I’m not suggesting Cliff spend all his time doing free expansions, merely that it must be a hell of a tough business with so many apathetic pirates around.
First off, I give Ghosx credit for speaking honestly.  Even if I don’t agree with you, it’s good to see someone just come out and say why they do it.
If you count “downloading a DRM-free cracked fix of a game I purchased” as pirating, then I have pirated just about every game I’ve purchased in the past several years that has DRM in it.  Some companies (Positech and Stardock come to mind) don’t have DRM, and I am more than willing to support these companies.  If the game is DRM free, I have no problem buying a copy since I’m not being treated as a thief.  Spore was a game that I would have pre-ordered had it not been for all of the DRM.  I was able to convince several other people not to purchase it because of the insane activation scheme.  Granted, I have bought some games that did have DRM…but those are numbering less and less as time goes on and the schemes get worse and worse.
I have borrowed games from friends.  If you count that as pirating, then I am also a pirate in that respect.  Neverwinter Nights 2 was a game that I was unsure about, so I borrowed it from a friend and installed it.  I was unable to get it to run at all with the DVD in the drive…but going out to a pirate site to get a fixed EXE allowed me to run the game.  I wasn’t overly impressed with it and didn’t finish it all the way, so that saved me quite a bit of money.  Some other games that I have tried this way are ones that I ended up buying legit copies of (Age of Empires and Supreme Commander are the first two that come to mind)  Even with these games, I went ahead and downloaded no-CD cracks.
Ghosx description of why people pirate- because they can and can get it for free and therefore spend money on something else is true for those I know that do this.  Not many people I know admit it to me these days knowing my stance but that has and probably always will be the primary reason amongst my age group of friends that I know. I am 46 years old and my friends are not without the dosh- they just have the know how and the thought processes that make them believe that if it is there to take for free- why not?
DRM/Crappy games etc are now just becoming excuses to make it more socially acceptable to pirate IMO.
Sure I played my first game - Leisure Suit Larry I recall clearly- was given to my husband from his friend at work (who was giving out copies to everyone) and then he installed it on our 10mb hard drive and I was sold to the gaming world.  I was playing it one day whilst our inlaws were over and my SIL had to have a copy and immediatley it was a hit around her workplace too.  All for free.
I am sure sooner or later I would have found the wonderful world of gaming for myself and quickly learned this was wrong to take such well meaning gifts.  So alas - LSL never did get my money and sure I could write a cheque to Sierra and get rid of my sin but who does that?  I am sure none of the other 25 people in the office gave 2 hoots about it - nor their inlaws and the office they worked in and so on and so forth.   I can only ensure I do not do this again.  Now everyone has a first and only but compound that now with how many games by how many people in the office and then how many relatives they give it too- who also work in offices- and can anyone honestly say piracy is not a problem?
Back to Ghosx subject-  I know people that do pirate the latest games these days- and they are not young skin flint people - not that should excuse it anyway- they are adults that have means but do not see any reason why they should pay for something they can easily get for free.  If their kid wants a game- they download it for them- they save their money for holidays in Italy as you cannot get them for free.  Simple as that.
Well at least he is brutally honest but frankly also as brutally wrong.  I think if someone would come to his home and take all or some of those nice things he spent his money on, rather than pay for other peoples work well, he’d be the crying foul and the  police. One mans property is another mans free ride if he can manage to get it free. Well if you leave  your door open by mistake, or window, then by your logic I have the perfect right to take what I feel I like in your home, and you should just understand my stance that since it was open, it was free. I like your logic, mind if we have your address? Mind if we stop by during the day while your at work? We’ll make sure we leave a note saying hello.

Well at least he is brutally honest but frankly also as brutally wrong.  I think if someone would come to his home and take all or some of those nice things he spent his money on, rather than pay for other peoples work well, he’d be the crying foul and the  police. One mans property is another mans free ride if he can manage to get it free. Well if you leave  your door open by mistake, or window, then by your logic I have the perfect right to take what I feel I like in your home, and you should just understand my stance that since it was open, it was free. I like your logic, mind if we have your address? Mind if we stop by during the day while your at work? We’ll make sure we leave a note saying hello.
While I don’t agree with what he’s saying, a more accurate analogy would be “if someone would come to his home and makes a copy of all or some of those nice things he spent his money on while leaving the originals…”  You still have your version of the goods when he makes a digital copy.  Again, I’m not justifying what he did…merely that if you are not going to profit from the game, it doesn’t hurt you directly if he takes your copy (unless you work for Positech, of course.)  Cliffsky, on the other hand, is hurt directly because it’s a lost sale.
Well at least he is brutally honest but frankly also as brutally wrong.  I think if someone would come to his home and take all or some of those nice things he spent his money on, rather than pay for other peoples work well, he’d be the crying foul and the  police. One mans property is another mans free ride if he can manage to get it free. Well if you leave  your door open by mistake, or window, then by your logic I have the perfect right to take what I feel I like in your home, and you should just understand my stance that since it was open, it was free. I like your logic, mind if we have your address? Mind if we stop by during the day while your at work? We’ll make sure we leave a note saying hello.
While I don’t agree with what he’s saying, a more accurate analogy would be “if someone would come to his home and makes a copy of all or some of those nice things he spent his money on while leaving the originals…”  You still have your version of the goods when he makes a digital copy.  Again, I’m not justifying what he did…merely that if you are not going to profit from the game, it doesn’t hurt you directly if he takes your copy (unless you work for Positech, of course.)  Cliffsky, on the other hand, is hurt directly because it’s a lost sale.
Good point but, I think its the idea he came into your home to do it all is a bigger issue. 
it someone copies my game it doesn’t hurt me.
If everyone copies it though, I go out of business and my house gets repossessed.
I think that its unethical to live your lfie in a way that is only possible because other people work harder than you, and live in a more honest way that you do yourself. To behave that way is to be a leech, a free-loader, and frankly, not a nice guy.
That’s why people shouldn’t pirate. Because they are expecting other people to subsidise their lifestyle. If they can’t see this must be the case, they need to study basic economics.
When we have holodecks and replicators, this won’t be a problem. We don’t have them yet, at least not for food and housing.
Oooo, scary stuff. Lot of good points too. Very enlightening read.
it someone copies my game it doesn’t hurt me.
If everyone copies it though, I go out of business and my house gets repossessed.
I think that its unethical to live your lfie in a way that is only possible because other people work harder than you, and live in a more honest way that you do yourself. To behave that way is to be a leech, a free-loader, and frankly, not a nice guy.
That’s why people shouldn’t pirate. Because they are expecting other people to subsidise their lifestyle. If they can’t see this must be the case, they need to study basic economics.
When we have holodecks and replicators, this won’t be a problem. We don’t have them yet, at least not for food and housing.
Now that you put it in that way, I think Pirating games is like Cheating in multiplayer games. One does it because he/she doesn’t have either skill/desire/interest to play the game fairly, and in worst case the cheaters will want to have fun with the expense of others. I think these “crack” guys who do it for the skene should start doing some demoes if they want to show their skillz instead of cracking other people software and work. I hope someday there will be a anti-cracl/anti-piracy system that will not bite in the customer’s a**, and one that will allow games to be resold.
it someone copies my game it doesn’t hurt me.
If everyone copies it though, I go out of business and my house gets repossessed.
I think that its unethical to live your lfie in a way that is only possible because other people work harder than you, and live in a more honest way that you do yourself. To behave that way is to be a leech, a free-loader, and frankly, not a nice guy.
That’s why people shouldn’t pirate. Because they are expecting other people to subsidise their lifestyle. If they can’t see this must be the case, they need to study basic economics.
When we have holodecks and replicators, this won’t be a problem. We don’t have them yet, at least not for food and housing.
I have posted similar posts as the one I have posted now. Those who pirate anything really probably live at home, and probably do not understand the worth of money. When you have bill collectors, you better have the money when they want it. If you were to say something like, “Oh, I don’t have it because my job doesn’t pay me money.” They would not care, and would take whatever they are there for.
You are making money doing something you love, people hate that. They feel you are making too much money, probably more than they are because they did not take the right steps in life, so that is your problem.
Here in America, we have a system called welfare. If you want to have 10 kids, don’t worry about a job, others will pay your food, medical, and housing. Sure, it is free for you, but someone pays for it. Same with piracy, you can download as much as you want, others will take the hit, mainly those with the jobs in those sectors.
If we take everything for free, what is the point to work? I get it, a select few should work, while others reap the benefits? I wonder why we are in such a huge economic mess. We all want stuff for free, but without paying or working for that stuff.
Powered by Discourse, best viewed with JavaScript enabled
France Deguisement
ACHETER EN LIGNE
( Deguisement Pirates )
Produit épuisé !
Costume de Cutie de pirate
Deguisement Pirates Costume de Cutie de pirate, Tant de costumes de pirate sont basés sur les modèles géorgiens, ainsi nous avons pris le thème et lui avons donné une torsion plus moderne.  Ce costume est simple, élégant mais toujours très efficace. Le costume se compose d'une basse coupe bleue et le dessus rayé blanc de récolte, s'assortissant lacent vers le haut des réchauffeurs de bras, rouges individu-attachez le foulard et le gaucho noir trois pantalons de quart.  Des tissus sont énumérés en tant que polyester 100%.


















Chercher
Naruto Naruto Shippûden Opening 3 

Création : 22/02/2010 à 09:40
Mise à jour : 29/06/2013 à 11:15

Retour au blog de dydyrockmanga 

Ajouter cette vidéo à mon blog

#Posté le jeudi 30 août 2012 15:55
Connecte-toi
Article précédent
Article suivant

            Design by dydyrockmanga 
Signaler un abus
Abonne-toi à mon blog ! 
RSS
Have an existing account?
Already have a subscription?
Don't have an account?
Get the news
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
A woman was arrested at the El Paso border after more than a pound of cocaine was found in her shoes by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers.
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        
Cocaine was found in the soles of  a pedestrian's shoes Monday at the Zaragoza Bridge.(Photo: Courtesy U.S. Customs and Border Protection)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers arrested a woman after allegedly finding 1.3 pounds of cocaine in her shoes Monday evening at the Zaragoza Bridge, officials said.
Laura Valeria Ramirez, 23, of Juárez, was arrested on suspicion of drug smuggling, CBP officials said.
The cocaine was found in the inner soles of Ramirez's shoes after a CBP officer noticed the sneakers were unusually heavy during a secondary inspection at about 7 p.m. in the pedestrian border crossing area, officials said.
An X-ray scan and a probe detected the cocaine after CBP officers noticed the inner soles were thick, officials said.
"CBP officers will sometimes encounter people who try to smuggle drugs in their shoes," Severiano Solis, acting CBP El Paso port director, said in a statement. "Our attention to detail stopped this drug smuggler in her tracks."
Deel Op
 
{BOXYOUTUBE_ROMA_2013}
{BoxDiretteAntwerpen2014}
{BoxAntwerp2014ProgPDF}
{ProgrammaGiovaniAnversa2014} {BoxTwitterAperto}
{NEWS_SCROLL_3;SS}
{RASSEGNA_STAMPA_CORRELATA}
{NEWS_IN_EVIDENZA_INTERNO?n=3}
 
{PREGHIERA}
{MENU_PP}
{NEWS_IN_EVIDENZA_INTERNO?n=2}
{NEWS_SCROLL_3;SS}
{LIBRI}
Copyright © 2018 - Comunità di Sant’Egidio - C.F. 80191770587 - Credits
web design: FULLSTACKAGENCY
coding: FSNETSYSTEMS

cms: GOOFY by FSNETSYSTEMS

							Deze website maakt gebruik van cookies om uw ervaring op de portal te verbeteren.							


      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      All market data delayed 20 minutes.
    

          Casey Smitherman, superintendent of Elwood Community Schools, resigned on Friday after she allegedly used her own insurance to help a sick student.
          (Elwood Community School Corporation)
The Indiana school superintendent who was arrested for allegedly using her own insurance to help a sick student resigned on Friday.
Casey Smitherman, superintendent of Elwood Community Schools, reportedly resigned at a school board meeting and said she was "embarrassed" by the situation.
FLASHBACK: INDIANA SUPERINTENDENT CHARGED WITH FRAUD FOR ALLEGEDLY USING OWN INSURANCE TO HELP ILL STUDENT
"I have dedicated my entire professional career to children and ensuring they have the best possible chance of success," Smitherman said in a statement obtained by Fox 59. "My record of accomplishments clearly shows I have been successful in doing that. Unfortunately, my recent lapse in judgment has brought negative attention to the community and myself."
On Jan. 9, Smitherman allegedly took a 15-year-old student to the doctor after he didn&apos;t show up to school because of a sore throat, the news station reported, citing court documents.
She allegedly signed in the student under her son&apos;s name -- and filled a prescription for Amoxicillin at a pharmacy under the son&apos;s name, too.
Days later, investigators reportedly received a tip about the situation. Smitherman told police she was worried about the student and had helped him in the past, but never reported his situation to state officials out of fear he&apos;d be placed in foster care.
INDIANA BOY, 13 ARRESTED AFTER TELLING SIRI HE WANTED TO SHOOT UP A SCHOOL
Records reportedly stated that the student&apos;s treatment cost $233. Smitherman previously told Fox 59 that the first clinic where she went with the student refused him service, so she pretended the boy was her son afterwards.
"I knew he did not have insurance, and I wanted to do all I could to help him get well. I know this action was wrong. In the moment, my only concern was for this child’s health," Smitherman said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
In her resignation statement, she said she hoped "this single lapse in judgment does not tarnish all of the good work I’ve done for students over the span of my career."
Smitherman was charged with official misconduct, insurance fraud, insurance-application fraud and identity deception.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Une à deux fois par mois, des idées exclusives à vous faire saliver !

Si comme moi vous avez la chance de découvrir la poutargue encore jeune, dites merci à la vie (enfin jeune, c’est peut être un bien grand mot !) ! Non mais sans rire… Certains attendent plus de 50 ans avant d’offrir à leur papilles ce délice alors qu’en réalité, on transforme un plat simple du quotidien en plat gastronomique et festif avec quelques copeaux râpés !
On s’en régale simplement sur une bonne tranche de pain beurrée (plus simple tu n’as pas), dans un bon plat de pâtes al-dente ou encore sur un poisson grillé !  Après… Bien entendu tu peux viser l’originalité, récemment par exemple j’y ai gouté sur une salade de courgettes/ricotta/citron et je dois dire que c’était pas mal du tout !
Alors revenons à notre recette ! Pour déguster et découvrir la festivité que la poutargue apporte, je vous propose de cuire un simple oeuf au plat, rien de sorcier. Quelques feuilles de pourpier fraiches et des petites tomates cerises pour la déco, notre oeuf bio au jaune encore coulant, vous terminerez avec la poutargue râpée et le tour est joué ! Une bonne petite entrée d’été avant un petit babercue par exemple !
Vous l’aurez compris, pas besoin de faire compliqué pour se faire plaisir, le tout est dans le choix de vos produits…

Ingrédients (pour 4 personnes) :
La cuisine ? Je suis tombée dedans quand j'étais petite. Passionnée de cuisine et bonnes adresses, je partage avec vous mes recettes, restaurants et autres découvertes sur ce blog. A bientôt !
Elle me plait bien cette salade…
 




Une à deux fois par mois, des idées exclusives à vous faire saliver !
Que du bonheur depuis 2010 ! Ce blog est votre carnet de recettes, bonnes adresses, voyages, bons plans, rencontres et coups de cœur gourmands. 
Toujours à la quête du goût et du meilleur, bonne lecture !
Restaurants, bars et autresbonnes adresses parisiennes
Follow Me!
Marion a découvert est un blog de cuisine édité par Marion Flipo. Tous les restaurants et recettes présentés sur le site sont testés et approuvés par Marion qui souhaite partager avec ses lecteurs les bons plans qu'elle découvre.

Paris|
Lille|
Londres|
New-york|
Venise|
Rome|
Atlanta
Florence|
Lisbonne|
Bangkok|
Kyoto|
Naples|
Dubaï

© 2010 - 2019 • Marion Flipo






Liste complète

En 2009, les Rencontres Mondiales du Logiciel Libre se sont tenues du 7 au 11 juillet dans la ville de Nantes ! Un évènement porté par l’association Linux-Nantes avec le soutien actif d’associations d’utilisateurs de Logiciels Libres de la région. Celle qu’on appelle la Venise de l’ouest devient le point de rendez-vous des multiples nationalités invitées.
Le comité organisateur s’est engagé à offrir une 10e édition orientée sur la migration et la conduite au changement vers le Libre, des plus enrichissante. Comme chaque année, conférences, tables rondes, et ateliers seront proposés aux visiteurs durant 5 jours. Ceux-ci, qu’ils soient experts, novices, professionnels, ou simples curieux pourront trouver les interlocuteurs qui répondront à leurs questions au travers des nombreux thèmes abordés. Sans oublier bien entendu le village associatif où chacun pourra se promener.
Il s’agira donc de présenter le Logiciel Libre, l’expliquer mais également en montrer toutes les perspectives. Nous vous invitons donc à découvrir cet univers qui s’étend bien au-delà de l’informatique. En effet, les 10es RMLL seront l’occasion de l’entrée en scène de nouveaux thèmes importants : “Matériel Libre” et “Culture et Art Libre”. Beaucoup d’autres découvertes sont au rendez-vous et ne demandent qu’à être explorées.
C’était bien, à Nantes ! À bientôt à Bordeaux, du 6 au 11 juillet 2010 !

Liste complète

2009, RMLL.info
O serviço de gestão de risco e fraude documental mais completo do Brasil

RSS
Twitter
Facebook

jul 27
Waldenis LopesNotícias "laranja", BrSafe, corrupção ativa, corrupção passiva, fraude em licitação, fraude em licitação pública, organização criminosa Sem Comentários
27/07/2018
Uma operação chamada Monopólio, deflagrada na quinta-feira (26) pela Polícia Civil do Distrito Federal (PCDF), revelou que através de fraudes em licitações, alguns empresários da capital conseguiram movimentar R$ 55 milhões. O grupo atuava desde 2011 em contratos firmados com algumas Administrações Regionais do DF. As investigações haviam começado em 2014, quando uma denúncia anônima apontou que os empresários usavam um grupo de empresas registradas em nome de laranjas (em geral, funcionários ou parentes) para fraudar as licitações. As ações ilícitas teriam acontecido, principalmente, em contratos com as administrações regionais de Águas Claras e do Gama, segundo as apurações. Conforme a polícia, o esquema ocorria em licitações do tipo “convite”, em que pelo menos três empresas são convidadas para disputar a realização de uma obra com valor menor que R$ 150 mil. Com isso, não é necessário “divulgar” a licitação.
Entre as principais obras fraudadas estavam a construção de quadras poliesportivas, parquinhos e a instalação de meio-fios. Durante o pente-fino, foram analisadas 259 licitações vencidas pelas empresas investigadas. Foram cumpridos 24 mandados de busca e apreensão e 18 de prisão temporária (por cinco dias). Entre os alvos, havia três servidores públicos, além dos empresários e seus laranjas. Os investigados foram indiciados por fraude em licitação, organização criminosa (com aumento de pena por envolverem servidores públicos), lavagem de dinheiro, corrupção ativa e corrupção passiva. O GDF informou que irá exonerar os servidores.
Ler a notícia na íntegra
Fonte: Destak

Saiba mais sobre os crimes de fraude no site do BrSafe.
 Suspeitos de integrar quadrilha de estelionato são presos em SP Homens são presos suspeitos de se passar por servidores públicos para dar golpes, na Zona Sul do Recife

Cancel

Nome (obrigatório)

Email (obrigatório)

Site





O BrSafe é um sistema online que utiliza um banco de dados com milhares de cruzamentos de informações para aferir o risco de fraude em documentos de identificação pessoal em menos de 2 minutos. Clique aqui e saiba mais.
© BrSafe 2019
Powered by  WordPress | Theme by N.Design
Let’s face it, college kids can be a bit vulnerable. They’re picking majors, meeting new people, and heading out on their own for the first time, making them a prime target for fraud. In fact, just this week the UK's fraud and cybercrime center Action Fraud along with the London police warned students about a phishing email scam that claimed student loan accounts had been suspended due to inaccurate information. The reader was asked to click a link and update their information on a fake site, where fraudsters would steal credentials and other personal information. As if student loans alone weren’t bad enough, now we have bad actors on a mission to make higher education even tougher by stealing your identity.
College students have enough to juggle when it comes to school, work and their social life. Now, protecting against fraud is part of that list and there are several types of fraud that students need to be aware of. Let’s take a look…
Apartment Catfish: Many college students spend their entire academic year scouting out off-campus housing for the following year. But, they need to know that asking for money BEFORE seeing an apartment is a bad sign. Just like that online love interest that seems like “the one” but won’t FaceTime, an apartment that won’t let you visit before making a deposit is likely catfishing you. While this may not seem like a big deal in a competitive market (we get it… that apartment on the beach DOES look perfect), there is never a reason to send money without viewing an apartment -- especially if the request is for a money transfer. In addition, fake listings have become a major problem. It’s easy for criminals to set up apartment rental listings online with fake pictures of places that don’t exist or have been copied from legitimate listings with tempting prices, so make sure there’s an in-person visit to the residence before any deposits are made.
The Tuition Scam: Fraudsters go where the money is, and with the cost of tuition and fees at a private, non-profit, four-year university school year averaging out at $31,231, it’s no wonder they’ve targeted college tuition payments. Often times a scammer will contact a college student or his or her parents saying that a tuition payment is late and there will be severe consequences, such as being dropped from classes, if the payment is not made immediately over the phone. Like other phone scams – the best advice is to hang up and speak directly with your school.
Online Books: Found an amazing deal online for textbooks? Similar to apartment listings, it’s now easier than ever to set up a fake website that takes your money but never ships any textbooks. Fraudsters have taken to setting up their own fake stores on Amazon or stealing the identities of third-party sellers. The best advice is to double check online book sellers through the Better Business Bureau before making any purchases.
College students are prime targets, but they’re not the only ones. To learn more about mobile payments and current fraud trends, download the Mobile Payments & Fraud: 2017 Report, presented by CardNotPresent, Braintree, The Fraud Practice and Kount. 
 hbspt.cta.load(398536, 'bb28005f-1a00-46c0-a955-89b425f1e50b', {}); 
As predicted, in the aftermath of the O’Reilly’s robbery of which details remain sketchy, the soft lobbying efforts to “tighten Australian gun laws” have begun with Police Minister Lisa Neville and the Agenda Broadcasting Commission hot off the mark:
“The Victorian Government is considering tightened security requirements for gun stores after more than 50 firearms were stolen from a Melbourne shop on Monday. A gang of four masked men, including one armed man, stormed the gun shop in Thornbury about 11:00am and threatened the attendant before fleeing with the guns in a stolen car.
Victoria’s Police Minister Lisa Neville described the incident as “incredibly unusual” but said she would discuss whether tighter legislation was needed with Victoria’s police chief and gun shop owners.
We have [legislation] in terms of licencing and how [guns are] stored,” she told ABC Radio Melbourne.”
Yes, the old make things more illegal. Because we need more laws to cover our supposedly “world class” gun laws to stop this from happening again as it did in South Morang and over in WA with Barry’s Firearms.
Daniel Young of the Shooters, Fishers and Farmers Party nailed it yesterday when he stated that “it doesn’t matter how much security you have, if someone puts a gun to your head you’re going to open that safe or do whatever they tell you to.”
And what is with Labor, the so called workers’ party, targeting businesses and jobs? The firearms and shooting industry in Victoria is massive with 80+ firearm stores, and hunting alone was worth $439 million to the state’s economy alone in 2013.
Typical Labor – anti-firearm, anti-Australian workers, no ideas but just ban and tax. This is just more of the same from Victorian Labor beginning with the infamous Cain government law changes in the 1980’s.
The Combined Firearms Council of Victoria have done some great work highlighting the flaws in the proposed new laws by Lisa Neville. The slippery slope of consequences that Firearm Prohibition Orders can basically be slapped on anyone and draw innocent people in by association, is huge.
Neville’ s new laws also include a proposal to disarm 90% of the security industry, which will only make things like this more common.
Call it for what it is – back door firearm legislation aimed at the dealers and law abiding firearm owners by an opportunistic Labor government. If Neville and Daniel Andrews had any sense, they would start putting the hard word on crooks and allowing people to protect themselves. But as we’ve seen over the last two years, they have been weak as water on crime and it’s no surprise that criminals are taking advantage of this situation nearly every day. It’s also cynical of Neville and Victorian Labor to want to ram home these gun laws without proper consultation, much like the current Westgate Tunnel fiasco which Andrews has started without proper consultation, much like the whole East-West link thing, huh Dan?
If you want to stop dealers being targeted, then it’s simple:
Until then Lisa, get out of the way and let Victoria Police, the once great service that you and your ilk have turned into a wet lettuce when it comes to criminals, recover these firearms and apprehend those responsible. And after that, you can make sure the weak Victorian judiciary comes down hard on the crooks responsible. If you’re not willing and able to be reasonable and do that, then resign and let someone else do the job.
Because collectively punishing everyone who had nothing to do with it along with victim blaming the innocent, will guarantee you get turfed in November.
Get back to being a workers’ party and stop trying to take guns off the working class.

The idiocy of victim blaming, loading up businesses with more costs and thinking that making stealing more illegal than it is will help is depressing.
Then we have the security of the various state firearms databases (aka a shopping list for criminals) – the Federal Govt recently sold off old filing cabinets, that they couldn’t find the keys to, that contained one of the biggest breaches of security in Australian history, they were sold via a second-hand shop in Canberra, where ex-government furniture is sold off cheaply.
They were purchased for small change and sat unopened for some months until the locks were removed with a drill.
Inside were the documents now known as The Cabinet Files.
The thousands of pages reveal the inner workings of five separate federal governments and span nearly a decade.
Documents inside were marked Top Secret and Top Secret Australian Eyes Only (secret even from our allies).
If it can happen to the most secret documents at the highest level, then don’t kid yourself that your state police are more secure – the security of your data and what firearms you have is only as safe as the most stupid, lazy or corrupt person in that section of the police, its admin or its IT support. sleep well.
Yet another stupid idiot running of at the mouth with real information
Kyle Moule and Ryan Ouellette were arrested after they were found inside a building at the University of Hartford with stolen property. (Courtesy of Hartford Police)
HARTFORD — Two East Windsor men were arrested after they were found inside a building at the University of Hartford with stolen property, police said.
Kyle Moule, 19 of Tromley Road and Ryan Ouellette, 18, of Perri Lane were arrested on charges of criminal trespass, third-degree burglary and possession of burglary tools, police said. Moule was charged with first-degree criminal trespass, a more serious charge, and Ouellette was charged with second-degree criminal trespass.
The university’s public safety staff stopped the men inside the Gengras Student Union building shortly before 9:30 p.m. The two admitted they had committed burglaries, police said.
The building is open to students, said David Isgur, a university spokesman, but the pair looked out of place. They had been to various locations around campus, he said, breaking into lockers and burglarizing a car. The two are not students, he said.
They are accused of stealing wallets, car keys and a musical instrument, Isgur said.
By Christine Dempsey, Hartford Courant
Filed in: News 
Topics: Local News 
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 





Online Public File		  • 
		

				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		285 Broad St. Hartford, CT 06115  •
		Copyright © 2019, WTIC		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
UNITED PHOTO PRESS MAGAZINE





No estudo ‘Fazendo do amor um crime’, a Amnistia Internacional alerta para o facto de ser cada vez mais frequente a perseguição institucional às minorias sexuais em África, na consequência da aprovação, por parte de vários governos, de leis que “criminalizam” as relações entre pessoas do mesmo sexo, escreve hoje o  (DN).



O estudo da organização englobou 60 entrevistas a homossexuais, activistas e médicos e identificou 38 estados africanos que condenam a homossexualidade.



Alguns dos países africanos, como é o caso da Nigéria, Libéria e Uganda, alegam que as relações entre pessoas do mesmo sexo são “contra a ordem natural”. A Somália e a Mauritânia vão mais além, sendo que nestes países esta orientação sexual chega mesmo a ser punida com pena de morte.


® 1990-2015 
UNITED PHOTO PRESS Internacional Association enhances photographic and journalistic activities all over the world.
Jeffrey Sweeney, Chairman and CEO, US Capital Global for The Fintech Times.
Dynamic entrepreneurship energises our economy, creates wealth for founders and investors, and ushers in societal benefits of new products, jobs, and technologies. Nowhere do we see this more than in the accelerated world of tech startups.
The blood-testing company Theranos and its founder and CEO, Elizabeth Holmes, garnered considerable media interest with the alleged ability to test for conditions ranging from diabetes to cancer using just a few drops of blood from a finger. Media attention followed and magnified the subsequent events and discoveries leading to the company’s disintegration. Theranos’ securities fraud saga concluded in March of 2018, with the settlement of SEC charges of fraud leveled at the founder. It’s a sobering reminder of the bad things that can happen when the necessary precautions aren’t taken, and appropriate professionals are not engaged to ensure correct execution of capital raising.
Theranos struggled through several investigations and lawsuits from multiple parties, but it was the securities fraud charges that ultimately crashed the company. While other flawed consumer and business actions by the company are serious, it was defrauding investors that resulted in the most severe punishment. The SEC ordered Theranos to return over $750 million to investors, while Holmes is personally liable for $500,000 in fines and banned from serving as a public company officer or director for the next ten years. Holmes also has to return millions of shares and relinquish voting control of the company that she dropped out of Stanford to found.
The ultimate lesson of the Theranos saga?
For entrepreneurs looking to take their business to the next stage of growth, the case of Theranos offers a hard lesson in what happens when raising capital is not done through the appropriate channels – namely, engaging licensed investment bankers to manage the raise. The one thing which the company and founder were most severely punished for – securities fraud – was something that could have been avoided if appropriate professional advice had been taken when raising funds.
While Theranos had a strong legal team, there was little the lawyers could do to prevent securities fraud from being committed in the first place. Legal counsel is responsible for providing advice and defending clients’ best interests, but they are not licensed to underwrite and oversee capital raises. That is the domain of investment banking professionals. To bypass engaging bankers in later stage capital raises is to risk violating securities regulations and being charged with investment fraud. For Theranos, that risk turned into a very real and irreversible outcome.
So how can issuers protect themselves from the potential pitfalls of raising capital incorrectly?
In today’s highly regulated financial environment, it’s imperative for issuers to engage licensed brokers who structure a raise where the responsibility – and risks –
of compliant investor communication on the sale of securities are limited to those  same professionals. There is no such thing as ‘securities fraud insurance’, but the act of hiring licensed bankers to manage your raise is essentially that.
By engaging a banker, issuers effectively transfer the responsibilities and risks associated with securities sales to a professional who is fully equipped to handle them. It’s in your banker’s interests, as much as your own, to ensure your raise is fully compliant and all investor sales communication is compliant. Then you, as the issuer, can be secure in the knowledge that your raise is in line with regulations and you remain protected in the event any issues occur.
For very early stage companies, with limited resources, who are raising capital from friends and family as well as angel investors, the upfront cost of engaging investment bankers may not be justified. However, at the “scale up” or “growth stage” of raising more significant amounts of capital from strangers, the cost of not hiring the appropriate professionals can far outweigh the fees of those professionals. For Theranos,  valued at $9 billion at its peak, the financial and existential cost of failing to engage professional bankers was devastating. This oversight all but destroyed the company, the careers of the individuals involved, investor value, and hundreds of jobs once held by employees. 
And what about the investors, are they protected?
The use of banking professionals not only protects issuers from their, oftentimes, inadvertent fraudulent communication and mistakes, but provides a similar ‘insurance’ to investors. The laws are written so that it’s not up to the investor to do appropriate diligence to uncover misrepresentation. The issuer’s responsibility is to make sure what’s represented to investors is factual. The bankers take regulatory responsibility for these representations made in the offering and ensure that all communications to investors are factual and absent of hyperbole.
The bankers do the investigative work (Due Diligence) in order to make sure that the representations that they make to investors are true and accurate, to the best of their ability. If these representations are not accurate, there are severe fines and career-ending sanctions for misrepresenting the facts. Under penalty of law, representations to investors must be factual and the assumption by investors can be “what’s said to me by the bankers is true”.
So the engagement of bankers in a deal ensures investor protection as well, but this also reduces the likelihood of wronged parties taking advantage of compromising circumstances,, to personally pursue actions against the issuer, and stage a hostile takeover – another threat that became true for Theranos.
We’re confident that the company could have avoided the final straw of being charged with massive securities fraud, if they had simply taken out ‘securities fraud
insurance’ – by hiring licensed investment bankers to manage the sale of its securities. Ultimately, it’s always advisable to do things properly from the beginning. When it comes to acquiring capital to grow your business, the investment banking industry is mandated to support issuers and protect investor interests.
uscapglobal.com
Disrupts Media Ltd. will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates and marketing. Please let us know all the ways you would like to hear from us:
You can change your mind at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in the footer of any email you receive from us, or by contacting us at [email protected] We will treat your information with respect. For more information about our privacy practices please visit our website. By clicking below, you agree that we may process your information in accordance with these terms.
We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices here.
CHICAGO -- Prosecutors have dropped charges against two men who say Chicago police detectives beat them into confessing to a 1989 killing.
Cook County Judge Alfredo Maldonado on Tuesday formally tossed convictions against Corey Batchelor and Kevin Bailey, both age 48. Batchelor was released on parole in 2004 but says he's glad a judge vacated the convictions. Bailey was still serving an 80-year prison term for the murder, but was released Tuesday.
“28 years, seven months and two long days, I sat up in the penitentiary area, and for what? Nothing!” Bailey said after he was released.
Batchelor waited at the gates of Statesville prison Tuesday, hugging the newly-released Bailey and their team of happy supporters as the two were reunited.
Bailey and Batchelor were 19-years-old and had no criminal histories when they were arrested in the stabbing death of a retired police officer's wife. Prosecutors said Tuesday that the evidence against the men doesn't meet the burden of beyond a reasonable doubt.
Attorneys for the men say many of the detectives trained under disgraced former Chicago police Cmdr. Jon Burge.  Burge was never convicted of torture, but he spent time in prison for lying under oath about torture in 2010.
Lawyers say Burge and his associates victimized more than 120 people, obtaining false convictions that so far have cost Chicago taxpayers over $100 million in legal fees, settlements and reparations.
Filed in: News 

Online Public File		  • 
		

				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2501 West Bradley Place Chicago, Illinois 60618  •
		Copyright © 2019, WGN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 

Maria, super, hiper PARABÉNS. Muitas alegrias hoje e sempre.Beijos



Maria,Muuuuitas felicidades e alegrias. PARABÉNS!!!!Grande beijo





Postar um comentário







      BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html', '0');
    




There are no products in your shopping cart.
When Ann Hansen was arrested in 1983 along with the four other members of the radical anarchist group known as the Squamish Five, her long-time commitment to prison abolition suddenly became much more personal. Now, she could see firsthand the brutal effects of imprisonment on real women’s lives.
During more than thirty years in prison and on parole, the bonds and experiences Hansen shared with other imprisoned women only strengthened her resolve to fight the prison industrial complex. In Taking the Rap, she shares gripping stories of women caught in a system that treats them as disposable-poor women, racialized women, and Indigenous women, whose stories are both heartbreaking and enraging. Often serving time for minor offences due to mental health issues, abuse, and poverty, women prisoners are offered up as scapegoats by a society keen to find someone to punish for the problems we all have created.
7 PMTuesday, October 16 2018@ 25One Community(251 Bank St. 2nd floor)
Ticket: $10 or PWYC. Advanced tickets are available online or in person at Octopus Books (116 Third Ave.)
Facebook event page: https://www.facebook.com/events/305887689991315/.
“Taking the Rap reveals in sometimes excruciatingly vivid detail the injustices and inequalities heaped on women as a result of social, economic, and legal systems that privilege those in power, particularly those who are what a Maori friend refers to as the “male, pale, and stale” crowd. Her passionate alliance with the women whose struggles she shares provides readers with a rare vantage point from which to examine the impoverishment of a legal system that is too often devoid of justice.” – Kim Pate, independent senator of Canada and former executive director of the Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies
Ann Hansen served seven years of a life sentence in federal prisons. She is a prison abolition activist and author of Direct Action: Memoirs of an Urban Guerrilla.
Senator Kim Pate was formerly the executive director of the Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies. In 2014, she was named a Member of the Order of Canada for advocating on behalf of women who are marginalized, victimized, criminalized or institutionalized, and for her research on women in the criminal justice system. She was appointed to the Senate of Canada on November 10, 2016. She is a member of the Independent Senators Group.
View the discussion thread.




inkl. MwSt. zzgl. Versandkosten




Sofort versandfertig, Lieferzeit ca. 1-3 Werktage


Schungit Massagenstift 14cm x 3,50 cm

Die mit einem * markierten Felder sind Pflichtfelder.


Ich habe die Datenschutzbestimmungen zur Kenntnis genommen.

Telefonische Unterstützung und Beratung unter:0800 522 77 33Mo-Fr, 08:00 - 13:00 Uhr

Abonnieren Sie den kostenlosen Newsletter und verpassen Sie keine Neuigkeit oder Aktion mehr.


Ich habe die Datenschutzbestimmungen zur Kenntnis genommen.


* Alle Preise inkl. gesetzl. Mehrwertsteuer zzgl. Versandkosten und ggf. Nachnahmegebühren, wenn nicht anders beschrieben


					Posted  by Mars Will Send No More in MeteorMags, science fiction, writing 





Stefan Mey berichtet bei Hyperland über fortgeschrittene Verhandlungen im Rahmen des Zentralverbands der deutschen Werbewirtschaft, um Piratenseiten wie kinox.to den Werbegeldhahn zuzudrehen. Geplant ist irights.info zu Folge „eine Beschwerdestelle und eine Schwarze Liste mit ’strukturell urheberrechtsverletztenden Websites'“. Mey zu Folge soll das Bündnis in Kürze an den Start gehen. Bereits heute seien aber Blacklists im Einsatz, wie Mey nach einem Gespräch mit einem Vertreter der Bamberger upjers GmbH berichtet:
„Mit sämtlichen Werbepartnern würden vorab Vereinbarungen getroffen, die das Schalten von Werbung auf illegalen Seiten ausdrücklich verbieten und Verstöße mit empfindlichen Vertragsstrafen ahnden. Zudem enthalte die Vereinbarung auch eine Blacklist, auf der unter anderem die Seite kinox.to stehe.“
Für den Digitale Gesellschaft e. V. hat Mey auch mich um eine Stellungnahme gebeten:
Der Verein Digitale Gesellschaft äußert sich im Gespräch mit Hyperland grundsätzlich positiv zu dem Vorhaben. Kritisch sei jedoch, dass ein vager Begriff wie “strukturell urheberrechtsverletzend” auch so ausgelegt werden könne, dass er neue und innovative Dienstleister behindert, meint Urheberrechts-Experte Leonhard Dobusch. “Strategien der Rechtsdurchsetzung, die nicht auf Abmahnung von Endnutzern, sondern auf eine Verfolgung gewerbsmäßiger Urheberrechtsverletzer setzen”, sind aber zu begrüßten, sagt Dobusch.
Und tatsächlich sind derartige Formen privater Rechtsdurchsetzung nicht vorbehaltlos zu begrüßen, vor allem wegen des fehlenden Rechtswegs und mangelnder Transparenz in Verbindung mit unscharfen Begriffen. Ein schwammiger Begriff wie „strukturell urheberrechtsverletzende Webseiten“ kann beispielsweise je nach Auslegung auch innovative neue Dienstleistungen treffen – YouTube war zu Beginn bzw. vor Entwicklung des Content-ID-Verfahrens auch ein „strukturell urheberechtsverletzendes Portal“ bzw. ist es nach Ansicht der GEMA wohl immer noch; dennoch hat sich gezeigt, dass gerade via YouTube’s Content-ID-Verfahren – einem ebenfalls nicht unproblematischen Ansatz – auch neue Monetarisierungsmöglichkeiten entstanden sind.
An einer Reform des Urheberrechts führt deshalb weiterhin kein Weg vorbei, sind doch streng genommen auch Plattformen wie Facebook derzeit „strukturell urheberrechtsverletzend.“
Über den Autor/ die Autorin
Wirtschaftsminister Peter Altmaier will den Teufel mit dem Beelzebub austreiben, Youtube hält den Brand von Notre Dame für einen Terroranschlag und Google verliert vor Gericht gegen deutsche Verbraucherschützer. Und wie breitet sich eigentlich rechte Desinformation im Netz aus und wie gefährlich ist das? Die interessantesten Reste des Tages.
Nach der EU-Urheberrechtsdebatte ist vor der nationalen Urheberrechtsdebatte. In den Fokus rücken dabei das Recht auf „freie Benutzung“ und das „Zitatrecht“. Und die mit Spannung erwartete Entscheidung im Endlos-Prozess um zwei Sekunden des Kraftwerk-Songs „Metall auf Metall“.
Die umstrittende EU-Urheberrechtsreform kommt. Mit der Abstimmung im EU-Rat nahm sie heute die letzte Hürde. Die Bundesregierung will laut einer Protokollerklärung Uploadfilter „weitgehend unnötig“ machen. Doch dabei handelt es sich bloß um eine vage Absichtserklärung.
Blöde Zustimmeritis!!! Wenn zu begrüßen ist, dass nicht mit Kanonen auf Endnutzer geschossen wird, könntest Du doch genau das begrüßen – und nicht gleich den gesamten, absurden Ansatz, dass komplette Plattformen, auf denen nach beliebigen Maßstäben und letztlich unbekannten Verantwortlichen womöglich „strukturell urheberrechtsverletzende“ Mashups stattfinden (nicht notwendigerweise von dort aus unternommen werden) ohne Rechtsgrundlage von ihrem Einkommen abgeschnitten werden! Menno!
Privatisierung von Recht sollte man in keinem Fall gut finden und sich auch nicht „grundsätzlich positiv äussern“. So gut ich eure inhaltliche Kritik verstehe und teile, wieso man ein solche Vorgehen auch nur irgendwie gut finden sollte verstehe ich nicht, schon gar nicht wenn man sich damit vor den Karren der GVU spannen lässt.
Ich muss wirklich sagen, euer Statement in dem Artikel hat bei mir einiges an Verwunderung ausgelöst.
Privat Polizei welche wirtschaftliche Bestrafung exerziert. Echte Charme Offensive. Daran ist nichts, aber auch gar nichts, zu begrüßen NP.
Vielleicht sollte man klarstellen, dass hier ein einzelner Satz aus dem Zusammenhang gerissen und damit sinnentstellend zitiert wurde. Anders kann ich mir das nicht erklären.
Genau deshalb habe ich das hier verbloggt. Noch einmal kurz und deutlich:
Gut ist, sich auf gewerbsmäßige Urheberrechtsverletzer und nicht auf Endnutzer zu konzentrieren bei der Rechtsdurchsetzung.
Schlecht ist sowohl private Rechtsdurchsetzung als auch bzw. insb. mit schwammigen Catch-All-Begriffen.
Die Frage ist, ob man sich überhaupt (interviewtechnisch) mit dem Teufel einlassen sollte. Allein den Begriff des „gewerbsmässigen Urheberrechtsverletzers“ würde ich nicht mit meinem Namen assoziiert wissen wollen. Das geht so in die Richtung, ob man der Jungen Freiheit ein Interview geben darf.
Dann hoffe ich doch, ihr bittet den Autor des Hyperland-Artikels um eine Korrektur. Ob der Satz aus dem Zusammenhang gerissen wurde oder nicht, er bleibt so wie er da steht bei Vielen hängen und wird so Verbreitung finden („Ich hab mal gelesen, die sind für das Vorgehen“). Diese Assoziation kann nicht in eurem Interesse sein.
Wir freuen uns auf Deine Anmerkungen, Fragen, Korrekturen und inhaltlichen Ergänzungen zum Artikel. Unsere Regeln zur Veröffentlichung von Ergänzungen findest Du unter netzpolitik.org/kommentare. Deine E-Mail-Adresse wird nicht veröffentlicht.
Deine Ergänzungdocument.getElementById("comment").setAttribute( "id", "aa6302042ebe8303695b6bb5ca56e741" );document.getElementById("i2b0024079").setAttribute( "id", "comment" );
Name
Email
Website
Meinen Namen, E-Mail und Website in diesem Browser speichern.
 



Lizenz: 
            Die von uns verfassten Inhalte stehen, soweit nicht anders vermerkt, unter der Lizenz
            Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0.


                Mit freundlicher Unterstützung von 

Im Pei Bank Of China Architecture Essay
Is terrorism — commonly understood to mean deliberate attacks on innocent civilians — ever justifiable, or at least subject to morally persuasive distinctions? I will argue that while terrorism is always morally wrong, it is both possible and desirable to distinguish between degrees of moral wrongness. I will examine this issue in the context of just-war moral theory and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Both Israel and the Palestinians have resorted to terrorism at various times during the course of their long conflict. After a broad overview of this history of mutual terrorism, I will discuss the conduct of both parties in terms drawn from the just-war tradition. These are (1) just cause, (2) last resort or the availability of alternatives to terrorism to reach a just cause, and (3) the probability that terrorism will realize a just cause.
My central argument is that, contrary to the standard mythology, especially in Israel, Israeli terrorism has been significantly worse than that of the Palestinians. A refutation of this mythology is important for a number of reasons. First, of course, ascertaining historical truth is important for its own sake. Second, the truth might make Israelis less blind to their own behavior and therefore less intransigent in seeking a compromise settlement of their conflict with the Palestinians. In particular, the truth should make it clear that Israel has neither the moral legitimacy nor the national interest to refuse to negotiate with Palestinian organizations that have employed terrorism, particularly Hamas, without whose participation there is no chance for a compromise settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Third, because the Israeli mythology is also widely accepted in the United States, the truth might — or, at least, should — lead the American Jewish community (of which I am a part) to rethink its views and therefore, in turn, make it politically feasible for the U.S. government to end its nearly unconditional support of Israeli policies in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Finally, a refutation of the mythology should serve the principles not only of truth but also of justice: current U.S. attitudes and policies have precluded the U.S. government from serious and sustained pressures on Israel, in the absence of which there is next to no chance of a fair settlement of the conflict.
What Constitutes Terrorism? It is often argued that terrorism is very difficult to define and objectively identify because the matter is hopelessly confused by semantic or ideological issues: "Terrorism is in the eye of the beholder" or "One man's terrorism is another man's freedom fighter," and the like.
This argument, however, is mistaken. There is a generally accepted and objective definition of terrorism (though with minor variations): deliberate attacks, whether by governments or non-governmental groups, on noncombatants (sometimes described as "innocent civilians") as well as their crucial economic and societal institutions and infrastructures, aimed at reaching political, religious or ideological goals.
This definition does not seek to resolve crucially important issues by building the answers into the definition, such as whether all forms of terrorism are equally morally indefensible. Moreover, it is unhelpful to moral analyses as well as policy prescriptions if the definition of terrorism is confined to mean actions that only nonstate actors engage in. For example, the U.S. government has defined terrorism as "premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by sub-national groups or clandestine agents"1 (emphasis added).
Since terrorism should be understood as a method of warfare, not (except in extremely rare cases) its purpose, it follows that fighters in a just cause, such as resistance to occupation or tyranny, can be both freedom fighters and terrorists.
Is it morally allowable to use unjust means if they are truly necessary to reach a just end or realize a just cause? Not in terms of categorical morality, which holds that certain rules or principles are inviolate, regardless of the circumstances; for example, Catholic moral tradition holds that evil may never be done in order that good can come of it. With regard to terrorism, then, categorical morality prohibits any deliberate attacks on innocent civilians (noncombatants), even if employed on behalf of a just cause, and even if no other means are available to realize it.
By contrast, consequentialist morality holds that, in the final analysis, actions and behavior can only be judged in terms of their practical consequences. In some circumstances, this view holds, the consequences of terrorism might be morally preferable to a status quo that cannot be changed except by terrorism.
Most writers on terrorism, certainly most Western political leaders, claim to categorically oppose it, regardless of consequences. That is clearly not the case, however, for hypocrisy or simple moral blindness have often trumped a categorical rejection of terrorism. For example, during the Cold War the United States actively supported Latin American military dictatorships that routinely tortured and murdered thousands of their own people in the name of "anticommunism." Likewise, during the 1990s, there was little or no U.S. government criticism when Algerian military dictatorships used extensive terrorist methods of their own to defeat an Islamic terrorist movement that at one point was on the verge of victory in democratic elections.
In short, for one reason or another, distinctions are quite common and are not only made by governments for political reasons. At the very least, in general discourse, it is often held that some forms of terrorism are more "understandable" — a vague euphemism, but essentially meaning less wrong than others. Thus, it seems fair to conclude that in ordinary judgments, few people truly believe that all forms of terrorism are equally and always prohibited. In real life, then, as distinct from moral theory, we make distinctions and consider mitigating circumstances: causes, contexts, exceptions and consequences are typically taken into account and inform our final moral judgments about terrorism. The most common distinction is between terrorism on behalf of what we think of as a just cause and that on behalf of an unjust one.
Aside from governments and ordinary citizens, a number of consequentialist moral philosophers have also questioned whether all terrorism can be categorically rejected, especially in cases of extreme injustices in which all other measures of remediation have failed.2 As well, it is commonly observed that an absolute prohibition against terrorism favors the militarily strong, an obvious issue in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, examined below. For this and other reasons, as C.A.J. Coady puts it, "Many contemporary moral philosophers, sympathetic to just-war thinking, are wary of moral absolutes. They would test the prohibition as expressing a very strong moral presumption against terrorism…but allow for exceptions in extreme circumstances."3
The moral dilemma seems inescapable. On the one hand, deliberate attacks on noncombatants are a clear moral evil. On the other, we instinctively wish to make distinctions between lesser and greater evils or unmitigated and mitigated evils.
For those who cannot accept a truly categorical moral prohibition of terrorism, just-war theory points to a number of morally relevant distinctions.
Just Cause. The first distinction is between terrorism whose purpose is morally indefensible and that whose purpose is justified. But what constitutes a just cause, one that is "morally right and fair"? It is a matter of argument and judgment. That said, in both international law and common morality, some causes are clearly so just they may warrant the use of force to attain them. The almost universally accepted justification is that of self-defense. Beyond that, there is an increasing acceptance of the principle that force may be justified to protect human-rights from massive abuse. In this light, the principal just-cause argument I am making here is that, in the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Palestinians have the right (just cause) to freedom, independence, and an end to Israeli occupation and repression.
However, while a just cause is an obviously necessary condition if violence in general — and terrorism in particular — can ever be considered justifiable or, at least, mitigable, it is by no means sufficient; in just-war moral philosophy, further conditions must be met.
Last Resort, or Absence of Alternatives. Terrorism, it is often said, is a weapon of the weak. The strong (such as states) have alternatives that the weak (such as nonstate groups and movements) lack: diplomatic and political influence, economic incentives and disincentives, and powerful armed forces. State attacks on noncombatants, therefore, even assuming a just cause, have an even greater burden of moral proof than nonstate attacks.
Nonetheless, terrorism by the weak, even on behalf of a just cause (the end of oppression, national liberation), could never be regarded as justifiable unless it was clear that all other means had failed. These means must include negotiations for a political settlement and nonviolent resistance if political means fail. They may even include armed resistance, but only so long as it is directed not against the civilian population but only against the oppressor's military forces or other instruments of violent repression.
A Reasonable Probability of Success. Even if the morally required conditions of just cause and absence of alternatives are met, any consequentialist justification for terrorism must also show that terrorism can lead to the realization of a just cause. In that sense, does terrorism ever work? There is a considerable body of scholarly literature on this issue, but no consensus on the answer. Some conclude that terrorism only hardens resistance; others argue that it has sometimes resulted in the realization of a just cause after other methods have failed.
The historical record suggests that the latter argument is the more persuasive. Terrorism employed by nationalist movements, such as for ending colonialism or other forms of foreign oppression, has sometimes achieved its goal or at least been a major contributing factor. Among the examples often cited to support that conclusion are the Algerian independence movement of the 1950s, ANC terrorism against South African apartheid, the defeat of British colonialism in Kenya and white settler colonial rule in Rhodesia, and the oft-cited success of Zionist terrorism in the creation of the state of Israel.4
Even so, the more important question, at least in moral terms, is whether even successful terrorism in a just cause can be morally justified.
Israel typically labels acts of Palestinian armed resistance, including against its occupying military forces, as "terrorism." However, even actual Palestinian terrorism — attacks on civilians — has regularly been exaggerated, in terms of both its purpose and its extent. As Igor Primoratz, a prominent Israeli writer on terrorism, has pointed out, although there were Palestinian riots and mob violence in the 1920s-30s, there was no organized or sustained terrorism until the late 1960s, when there were numerous attacks against Israeli civilian targets (such as buses and restaurants) and against Israeli and Jewish targets abroad (the Munich Olympic team, air traffic and others).5 Even then, most historians of this period argue that the primary practical purpose of the terrorism (despite some of the extremist Palestinian rhetoric) was less that of destroying the Israeli state — which it obviously had no chance of doing — than calling the world's attention to the Palestinian plight. That is not to say that it was justified. Nonetheless, even in its earlier stages, the operational goal of most Palestinian terrorism was a limited one.
In any case, beginning in the 1980s, Yasser Arafat and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) gradually but steadily moved away from their early ideological and uncompromising rejection of the existence of Israel and effectively abandoned the dream of creating a Palestinian state in all of historic Palestine. Finally, in November 1988, Arafat and the PLO officially agreed to end not only terrorism but all attacks on Israel, in the context of a compromise two-state political settlement that would create a largely demilitarized Palestinian state in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem.
Nonetheless, Israel continued the occupation and refused to negotiate, precipitating the Palestinian intifada (uprising) that began in December 1987. Israel labeled this first intifada "terrorism." However, as a number of studies have concluded, most of the Palestinian demonstrations and protest actions were in fact nonviolent, and even "Of the violent acts, the vast majority consisted of rock throwing against the Israeli Defense Forces [IDF] in the territories, with few incidents of terrorism inside the Green Line."6 Indeed, in order to demonstrate that the PLO's 1988 commitment to end terrorism remained in force, Arafat's security forces worked hand in hand with those of Israel, often in joint patrols, to identify and jail extremists and suspected terrorists.
There continued to be few Palestinian terrorist attacks until February 1994, when an Israeli settler attacked a Hebron mosque and killed 29 Palestinian civilians. However, when Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin refused to withdraw the fanatic Israeli settlers from Hebron, Hamas — but not the PLO — retaliated with a number of suicide attacks inside Israel. In 1997, though, the chief Hamas leader, Khaled Meshal, conveyed an offer to Israel (through King Hussein of Jordan) to agree to a 30-year ceasefire. Israel not only ignored the offer; a few days later, its operatives tried to assassinate Meshal.7
The second intifada broke out in September 2000. In its early stages, there was little Palestinian armed violence, even against Israeli soldiers and police. According to most accounts, the protests were limited to stone throwing until Prime Minister Ehud Barak authorized the Israeli police to use deadly force. In the ensuing weeks, the police killed hundreds of Palestinians, even though the Israelis suffered only a few casualties. As Shlomo Ben-Ami, the Israeli minister of security at the time, admitted, "Israel's disproportionate response to what had started as a popular uprising with young unarmed men confronting Israeli soldiers armed with lethal weapons fueled the intifada beyond control and turned it into an all-out war."8
During the intifada, Arafat and other PLO leaders repeatedly stated that it was not directed against the state or the people of Israel proper (that is, within its pre-1967 boundaries), but only against the continued occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. In fact, their behavior was generally consistent with this claim. With but a few exceptions, until the early 2001 election of Ariel Sharon as Israeli prime minister, Palestinian violence was directed almost exclusively at the Israeli military forces or the most extremist and violent settlers in the occupied territories.
For several years after the election of Sharon, who ended the peace process, the Palestinians — primarily Hamas and Islamic Jihad but also some members of the Tanzim and the al-Aqsa Brigades, organizations loyal to Arafat — did engage in outright terrorism, such as suicide bombings of Israeli buses, restaurants and meeting places. Even so, there were differences of purpose among the groups engaging in terrorism. The pro-Arafat groups insisted that the purpose of their attacks was only to force Israel to end its occupation and repression of the Palestinians.
To be sure, some of the religious extremist groups, especially Islamic Jihad, openly proclaimed that their goal was not merely to end the occupation but to destroy Israel. Hamas's rhetoric was inconsistent. Sometimes it proclaimed its attacks were intended to put an end to the state of Israel; more typically, its terrorism was explained by the goal of ending the occupation or merely as retaliation for Israeli assassination of its militants or for other Israeli military attacks that killed Palestinian civilians. This claim was taken seriously by a number of Israeli observers, for it was an observable fact, frequently reported in Israeli newspapers, that Palestinian attacks often followed such Israeli attacks.
After the Hamas takeover of Gaza in 2007, Israel imposed a severe economic blockade — often called "the siege of Gaza" by Israeli critics. This, in turn, led to an escalation cycle: Hamas or Islamic Jihad rocket attacks aimed at nearby Israeli towns were followed by Israeli military raids in Gaza, precipitating further Palestinian attacks, and so on. In the last eight years, these cycles have repeatedly ended with massive Israeli attacks on Gaza.
In the early years of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the declared purpose of the PLO was to destroy the state of Israel and reclaim all of historical Palestine for the Arabs. Since 1988, however, both the declared and observable purpose of Arafat, the PLO and the Palestinian Authority (PA) under Mahmoud Abbas has been to end the Israeli occupation and create an independent and viable Palestinian state in the 23 percent of the historical land that remained after the Israeli victory in the 1948 war — a clearly just cause. As a result, except for a few brief periods following the breakdown of the 2000-01 peace talks and the election of Ariel Sharon, PLO terrorism declined dramatically throughout the remaining period of Arafat's leadership. Since Arafat's death in 2004, the PA has embraced negotiations, compromise and nonviolence, in both its rhetoric and its actions.
In any case, a number of prominent Israeli writers, peace activists, politicians and even retired Shin Bet officers have not hesitated to attribute such Palestinian terrorism as has occurred during the history of the conflict as an understandable reaction to Israeli occupation and repression. None other than Ehud Barak himself once admitted, "If I were a Palestinian, I would join a terrorist organization."9 Similarly Nissim Levy, a 20-year veteran of the Shin Bet's operations in the occupied territories acknowledged, "If I were in their situation, I would make our lives bitter….When you take a person and put him up against the wall and don't leave him many options, then what do you want him to do? Do you think that if we were in their situation we wouldn't have suicide bombers?"10
There have been a number of similar statements by prominent Israelis, especially following periods of Palestinian terrorism, such as after Sharon's election ended the peace process. A partial list from 2003 includes the following:
• Twenty-seven reserve duty or retired pilots sent a letter to the Air Force chief of staff, declaring that they will refuse to participate in air operations against the Palestinians because they "are opposed to carrying out illegal and immoral attack orders [such as] attacks in civilian population centers." In a public letter, one the officers (Assaf Oron) elaborated: "I refuse to be a terrorist in my tribe's name. Because that's what it is: not a 'war against terror,' as our propaganda machine tries to sell it. This a war of terror…"11
• Menachem Klein, an Israeli political scientist who served as an adviser to Ehud Barak during the Camp David talks, charged that Israel had been engaged in terrorism since the outbreak of the intifada: it had "systematically assaulted a civilian population that is hostile, but noncombatant." The Israeli army, he added, frequently operated as "an agent of terror"; unlike the Palestinian "terrorism of the weak," he concluded, Israel terrorism was "terrorism of the strong, the mechanism of the state."12
• A leading Israeli columnist wrote that Sharon's demand that Arafat end terrorism as a precondition for negotiations was "ridiculous" and really designed to thwart any negotiations. How would the pre-state Zionist movement have responded, he asked, to a similar demand that the Irgun and other Zionist terrorist organizations be dismantled before "we achieved our goal and established our state?"13
• The editor of the English-language edition of Haaretz wrote, "We are running a military occupation regime in the territories that denies 3.5 million people their basic rights, bringing upon ourselves a bloody war of terrorism."14
• Amram Mitzna, a former IDF General and the Labor Party's candidate for prime minister in the 2003 elections, wrote, "Far from defeating terrorism, the prevailing policy — closures, checkpoints, liquidations — is creating terrorism."15
• Avraham Burg, a longtime Labor Party leader, the speaker of the Knesset from 1999 to 2003, the former chairman of the Jewish Agency as well as the World Zionist Organization and an Orthodox Jew, wrote the following: "The Israeli nation today rests…on foundations of oppression and injustice….Israel, having ceased to care about the children of the Palestinians, should not be surprised when they come washed in hatred and blow themselves up in the center of Israeli escapism. They consign themselves to Allah in our places of recreation, because their own lives are torture."16
• The head of Israel's Rabbis for Human Rights called for Sharon to be tried, in an Israeli court, for war crimes: "Apparently, what guided Sharon during his military career and reached its shameful climax at Sabra and Chatilla, now dictates the way the IDF conducts its war against terror….We are every day witness to the indiscriminate killing of Palestinian civilians."17
• Perhaps most startling of all, while not specifically arguing that it was the Israeli occupation that had pushed the Palestinians into terrorism, a former head of the Shin Bet (Avraham Shalom) went so far as to compare the conduct of the Israeli armed forces with that of the occupying forces of Nazi Germany.18
These and other similar statements by prominent Israelis effectively conceded or, at least, implied that, insofar as PLO terrorism was designed to end the Israeli occupation rather than the state of Israel itself, its cause was just.
But what about Hamas? The issue is complicated, turning on how to evaluate its real goal today. Certainly in the early years after its founding in 1987, its undoubted goal, as not only its Charter but numerous statements by its leaders made clear, was to destroy the state of Israel. However, in the last decade, it has become increasingly evident that Hamas is gradually moving towards a pragmatic acceptance of the realities of power — though a reluctant, inconsistent and uneven one — and therefore to a two-state political settlement.
The evidence includes the following:
• Shortly after winning the January 2006 Gazan parliamentary elections, Hamas sent a message to President George W. Bush offering Israel a truce for "many years" in exchange for a compromise political settlement. Neither the Bush administration nor Israel replied.19
• In February 2006, Meshal said that Hamas would not oppose the unified Arab stance expressed in an Arab League summit conference that offered Israel full recognition and normalized relations in exchange for full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied territories and a solution to the refugee problem.20
• In May 2006, senior Hamas members imprisoned in Israel joined with Fatah prisoners and issued the "Prisoner's Declaration." It went further than the earlier Hamas overtures, calling for the establishment of a Palestinian state "in all the lands occupied in 1967" and reserving the use of armed resistance for those territories only.21
• In August 2006, Gazan prime minister Ismail Hanieh in effect accepted and incorporated the Prisoner's Declaration into the Hamas position, especially its crucial distinction between the occupied territories and Israel within its 1967 borders. He told an American scholar: "We have no problem with a sovereign Palestinian state over all of our lands within the 1967 borders, living in calm"22 (emphasis added).
• In January 2007, Meshal stated that Hamas would consider recognizing Israel once a Palestinian state was established. A Haaretz story noted, "This is the first time that a Hamas official has raised the possibility of full and official recognition of Israel in the future." According to the story, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert "shrugged off" Meshal's statement.23
• Throughout 2008, Hamas's political positions continued to evolve. In April, Meshal publicly reiterated that Hamas would end its resistance activities if Israel ended the occupation and accepted a Palestinian state within the 1967 borders.24 Israel ignored the statement.
• In a May 2009 interview in The New York Times, Meshal said that Hamas should be judged on its current deeds and policies and that it was "not logical for the international community to get stuck on sentences written 20 years ago" in its Charter.25
• In December 2010, Hamas announced it would honor any Palestinian referendum that approved a peace plan with Israel. "We accept a Palestinian state on the borders of 1967, with Jerusalem as its capital, the release of Palestinian prisoners, and the resolution of the issue of refugees," said Haniyeh. "Hamas will respect the results [of a referendum]," he added, "regardless of whether it differs with its ideology and principles." Zvi Bar'el, a leading Haaretz political analyst, noted: "Not a return of refugees, not the destruction of the State of Israel, no preconditions."26
• In January 2012, Hamas announced it was suspending all acts of terror in favor of "popular resistance" (nonviolent resistance); was joining in a unity government with the PA; would accept past deals between the PA or PLO and Israel, such as the Oslo agreements; would accept Mahmoud Abbas as the prime minister in that government, which would conduct negotiations with Israel; and would agree to a two-state solution if the Palestinian people approved it in a referendum.27
• In May 2012, Haaretz and The New York Times reported that Hamas was taking direct action in Gaza to prevent the firing of rockets into Israel. Later that year, top IDF officers said Hamas had not participated in rocket attacks against Israel for over six months, and the military correspondents of Haaretz reported that, since Operation Cast Lead, Hamas "has almost completely refrained from firing rockets into Israel."28
• In November 2012, the ceasefire ended when Israel initiated an eight-day round of exchanges of fire with Hamas. However, before Israel once again broke an important ceasefire (as it had repeatedly done in the past), Hamas had apparently been on the verge of a radical change in its policies towards Israel. The story was covered in a series of articles in Haaretz by Gershon Baskin, a prominent Israeli peace activist with ties to both Hamas and the Israeli government who had helped negotiate the earlier deal in which an Israeli prisoner of Hamas was released in exchange for 1,000 Palestinian prisoners of Israel. Baskin had negotiated a draft agreement with Hamas military chief Ahmed Jabari that provided for a permanent truce between Israel and Hamas — not a 10-year or even a 30-year truce, as Hamas had proposed in the past, but a permanent one.29
A few weeks later, Reuven Pedatzur, the military correspondent of Haaretz, confirmed Baskin's account, writing that contacts between Baskin and Hamas had taken place "with the knowledge and consent of Defense Minister Ehud Barak," who was shown the draft agreement. Several hours later, though, Israel assassinated Jabari, "the man who had the power to make a deal with Israel," wrote Pedatzur.30
• After eight days of intense Israeli air attacks on Gaza, Israel and Hamas agreed to a new ceasefire, the central terms of which were that as long as Israel was not attacked, it would significantly ease the economic blockade widely termed, even in Israel, a "siege." Throughout 2013, however, this agreement was violated by Israel, which not only continued most of the economic sanctions but repeatedly engaged in assassinations and armed attacks inside Gaza. By contrast, Hamas continued not only to observe the ceasefire but cracked down even harder on Islamic Jihad and other militants to prevent them from launching rocket or mortar attacks. As a result, in the first three months after the ceasefire was negotiated, there was just one mortar attack from Gaza; throughout the rest of 2013, there were fewer attacks than in any year since 2003, the year that such attacks had begun. Israeli intelligence was said to be satisfied with Hamas's efforts to maintain the ceasefire.
• In January 2014, Hamas and the PA government in the West Bank signed a new reconciliation agreement (the previous agreement of 2012 had broken down). Under its terms, an interim unity government would be formed until new elections in six months time, but until then none of the cabinet-level positions would be filled by Hamas officials. Even more important, Hamas agreed to the PA's conditions that the Palestinian goal was a two-state settlement generally based on the 1967 lines, and that only nonviolent methods would be employed to reach it.31
A cautionary note: Despite the accumulating evidence, it cannot be denied that there have been inconsistencies in Hamas's position and that on occasion — usually following a particularly destructive Israeli attack — its spokesmen have returned to their earlier militant and rejectionist rhetoric. Sometimes Hamas officials have said that they accept Israel as a "fact" but would "never recognize its legitimacy"; on other occasions, however, they have strongly implied that their formal position had no practical importance and could eventually change. One day a Hamas official makes a particularly conciliatory statement, but other officials then deny there had been any changes in its policies. Sometimes Hamas has continued to stress its commitment to the "right of return" of all Palestinian refugees to Israel, perhaps the most difficult obstacle to a permanent settlement. At other times, however, it downplays the problem and generally indicates, like Abbas, that, in the context of an overall settlement, it will accept a symbolic resolution of the issue.
Despite the occasional mixed signals and contradictory rhetoric, there simply is no doubting the evolution of Hamas thinking, if for no other reason than that, as Paul Pillar (former deputy director of the CIA's Counterterrorism Center) has recently put it, "Hamas leaders are certainly smart enough to realize their group will never have anything close to a capability to destroy Israel, even if they wanted to do so."
In the final analysis, the only way to resolve the remaining (but generally declining) ambiguities in Hamas's position and test its willingness to reach a settlement is for Israel to enter into serious political negotiations with it, as several former directors and other high officials of Mossad and Shin Bet have been urging for a number of years. Far from doing so, Israel not only continues to refuse political negotiations with Hamas; it continues the assassinations that have killed or unsuccessfully tried to kill most of the founders and leaders of Hamas and its main activists. Pillar sums up what the evidence demonstrates: "Rather than saying Hamas is dedicated to the destruction of Israel, it would be closer to the truth to say that Israel is dedicated to the destruction of Hamas."
Since the Palestinians have no chance of defeating the Israeli armed forces, their main alternatives have been negotiated political compromise and nonviolent resistance. As discussed above, Yasir Arafat ended most PLO terrorist actions in the late 1980s, when Hamas and other more extremist groups were not yet an important factor, and sought to negotiate a two-state settlement with the Israelis. Since Arafat's death in 2004, Mahmoud Abbas, his successor, has continued to seek a negotiated political settlement and has offered a number of further compromises — or retreats from previous PLO positions — to that end. All negotiations or Palestinian offers to negotiate have gone for naught, overwhelmingly because no Israeli government has been prepared to agree to end the occupation, withdraw the settlers and turn over East Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza to the Palestinians.
For that reason, the political path to a settlement is all but dead, leaving only nonviolent resistance as an alternative to terrorism. In fact, at various periods the Palestinians have tried nonviolent resistance, civil disobedience and political protest, especially in the first and largely unarmed intifada in the late 1980s, and in the last few years to prevent the further expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
All of these efforts have been suppressed or violently crushed by Israeli forces. As Meron Benvenisti, the former deputy mayor of Jerusalem and a leading Israeli intellectual, writer and journalist, has written: "The fear that nonviolent protest will take root among the Palestinians has accompanied the conflict for many years, and the response of the Israeli authorities to nonviolent protest has been no less severe than their reactions to violent acts. …The Israelis have managed to persuade the Palestinians that they have no inhibitions when it comes to using force, even gunfire, against unarmed protesters, and they make no distinction between violent and nonviolent demonstrations."32
Despite the continuing history of Israeli rejection of a two-state settlement and the failure of both armed and unarmed Palestinian resistance, it does not necessarily follow that the Palestinians have had no choice, even on purely practical grounds, let alone on moral ones, but to resume terrorism. Nonetheless, let us begin with the practical question: has Palestinian terrorism worked?
A case can be made that, in the past, Palestinian terrorism sometimes did work, not in achieving its primary goals, but at least some of them. The 1972 Munich attack on the Israeli Olympic team is often cited as an example, insofar as it succeeded in dramatizing and calling the world's attention to the Israeli occupation and Palestinian desperation, which in fact was one of its objectives. More broadly, a number of Israeli commentators have argued that the historical evidence as well as the findings in public opinion polls often demonstrated (at least in the past) that when Palestinian violence was greater, the willingness of Israelis to compromise increased.
The Israeli withdrawal of its settlers from Gaza in 2005 illustrates the difficulty of assessing the impact of terrorism. On the one hand, many Israeli analysts believe that Palestinian attacks on Jewish settlers in Gaza were a major factor in Ariel Sharon's decision to cut Israeli costs and withdraw the settlers. On the other hand, Sharon continued and expanded Israel's extensive system of indirect control over, and punishment of, Gaza. This has led a number of other analysts and human-rights organizations to conclude that the occupation and repression of the Gazan people were effectively continuing.
The more important point today is this: even if it is arguable whether the Palestinians gained more than they lost by their earlier periods of terrorism, it no longer is. In the last 10 years, it has become clear that Palestinian terrorism is a disaster for both peoples. It has reinforced the Israeli "Never Again" mindset that results in an entirely preposterous analogy, cynical or genuine, comparing Palestinian resistance to the Holocaust. It has resulted in a major loss of popular support for Israeli peace activists, who argue that it is both desirable and possible to negotiate peace with the Palestinians. It has largely silenced criticism of Israeli policies by the U.S. government and most of the American Jewish community (especially the big donors to U.S. politicians). It led to the election of Ariel Sharon in 2001. And it resulted in the Israeli economic blockade and military attacks on Gaza.
In short, Israel today is both too strong and too ruthless for strategies based on armed resistance, let alone terrorism, to work.
In 1923, Ze'ev Jabotinsky, a Russian-born journalist, soldier and early leader of rightwing Zionism, published an article entitled "The Iron Wall." The heart of his argument was this: "We cannot promise anything to the Arabs of the Land of Israel or the Arab countries….A voluntary agreement is unattainable.…We must either suspend our settlement efforts or continue them without paying attention to the mood of the natives. Settlement can [only develop] behind an iron wall which they will be powerless to break down."33
As Avi Shlaim and many other Israeli historians have demonstrated, the iron-wall strategy has been at the core of Zionist/Israeli policies towards the Arab world ever since Jabotinsky's enormously influential essay was published. Jabotinsky did not elaborate on what military strategies the Zionists should adopt to create the iron wall, but his own history as well as that of the Zionist movement in the pre-state era and of Israel since 1948 makes it obvious that attacks on the Arab civilian population — that is, terrorism — are a central component.
As is now widely acknowledged, in the pre-state period — like the Palestinian pre-state period today — the Irgun and Stern Gang terrorist groups (led, respectively, by future Israeli Prime Ministers Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Shamir) frequently employed terrorism against Palestinian civilians, including bombs in markets and theaters, firing on buses and the like.
Then, during the Nakba, Zionist forces, including not only the clearly terrorist organizations but often with the collaboration or at least acquiescence of David Ben-Gurion and the Haganah, carried out a number of outright massacres. These included — among others — the notorious 1948 attacks on the Arab towns of Lydda and Deir Yassin, which had the intended consequence of causing tens of thousands of Palestinians to flee in terror from the lands and regions coveted by the Zionists.
The expulsion of the Palestinians led to the creation of the Palestinian guerrilla movement, which for a number of years operated out of bases in Egypt, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon. Guerrilla attacks inside Israel were met with an Israeli policy of massive retaliation, hardly limited to "an eye for an eye." Moshe Dayan, Shlaim writes, was a believer in the iron-wall strategy and during the early 1950s "had few inhibitions and no moral qualms about the use of military force, even against civilians." Thus, Dayan created a special secret unit in the Israeli army. Led by the young Ariel Sharon, it carried out a number of cross-border retaliatory raids into Jordan that targeted Palestinian civilians, the purpose of which was to intimidate them into not supporting PLO raids into Israel.
During his years as one of Israel's leading generals, Yitzhak Rabin sometimes supported such tactics. Shlaim writes that PLO raids from Jordan convinced Rabin that "the problem was the civilians who assisted Israel's Palestinian enemies"; as a result, the Israeli cabinet agreed to Rabin's plan to attack civilians in order "to serve as a warning…not to cooperate with the Palestinian saboteurs."34
These Israeli policies and practices continued in the 1970s and 1980s. Attacks on civilians were not limited to those against Palestinians. In 1968, Dayan warned that Israel might attack Egyptian cities in order to "strike terror into the hearts of the Arabs of the cities….[and] break the Arab will to fight."35 And it did so during the 1968-70 Suez Canal "War of Attrition." Israel responded to Egyptian attacks against its armed forces along the canal with massive artillery shelling and bombing of Egyptian towns and cities along its western banks. The "undeclared aims" were "to break Egyptian morale" by deliberately making life miserable for the population and thus increasing pressure against Nasser and later Sadat.36
The New York Times correspondent in Israel during this period later estimated that the Israeli air and artillery bombardments forced the evacuation of 750,000 civilians, destroyed 55,000 homes, and killed and wounded an untold number — all designed to be "a pressure tactic on the Egyptian authorities."37
There have been six major (and many smaller) Israeli air and ground-force attacks against Lebanon: in 1978, 1981, 1982, 1993, 1996 and 2006. While Hezbollah or PLO forces were the main targets of these attacks, a wealth of evidence (including newspaper accounts, Israeli commentaries and major books, and investigations by leading human-rights organizations) leaves no doubt that Israel deliberately attacked Lebanese civilian targets in order to deter the local population from supporting the PLO or Hezbollah and in the hope that the Lebanese government would be forced to suppress those groups. The various Israeli attacks killed over 15,000 civilians, wounded many thousands more, and deliberately targeted the Lebanese electricity network, ports and airports, fuel depots and factories, as well as private homes, small businesses and dozens of schools and hospitals.38
In addition, there is substantial evidence that in 1982 the Israeli army, in general, and Ariel Sharon, in particular, essentially collaborated with — or at least acquiesced in — the Lebanese Christian militia's slaughter of over 1,000 Palestinian civilians, including women and children, in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps near Beirut.
Astonishingly, in unguarded moments, leading Israeli officials have sometimes acknowledged that Israel has employed terrorism as an instrument of policy. In 1978, for example, General Mordechai Gur, then chief of staff of the IDF and later a leading Labor Party politician, responded to criticism of Israeli tactics in Lebanon in this way: "I've been in the army 30 years. Do you think I don't know what we've been doing all those years? What did we do the entire length of the Suez Canal? A million and a half refugees….Since when has the population of South Lebanon been so sacred? They know very well what the terrorists were doing….I had four villages in South Lebanon bombarded…[as, he says, was done in Jordan]….The whole Jordan Valley was evacuated during the War of Attrition."
The Israeli interviewer then comments, "You maintain that the civilian population should be punished?" Gur responds, "And how….I have never doubted it, not for one moment….For 30 years from the War of Independence to this day, we have been fighting against a population that lives in villages and towns…"39 Ze'ev Schiff, a leading Israeli military journalist, commented, "In South Lebanon we struck the civilian population consciously, because they deserved it….The importance of Gur's remarks is the admission that the Israeli Army has always struck civilian populations, purposely and consciously…even when Israeli settlements had not been struck."40
As well, in 1981, Menachem Begin wrote a column in the Israeli press responding to what he considered to be "hypocritical" criticisms of his government's bombing of Beirut, which killed hundreds of Lebanese and Palestinian civilians. In his defense, he offered a "partial list" of more than 30 Israeli military attacks against Arab civilians under Israeli Labor governments: "Under the Alignment [Labor] government, there were retaliatory actions against civilian Arab populations; the damage was directed against such structures as the canal, bridges and transport."41
A rather shocked Abba Eban, former Labor party foreign minister, responded: "The picture that emerges is of an Israel wantonly inflicting every possible measure of death and anguish on civilian populations in a mood reminiscent of regimes which neither Mr. Begin nor I would dare to mention by name." However, while Eban complained that Begin's charge helped "Arab propaganda," he did not contest Begin's facts. On the contrary, he defended Israel's earlier attacks on civilians on the grounds that, unlike the 1981 case, "There was [then] a rational prospect, ultimately fulfilled, that the afflicted population would exert pressure for the cessation of hostilities."42
As in the case of Gur's and Eban's remarkably revealing earlier statements, at other times Israeli officials in effect have openly admitted or warned of their intentions. For example, following Hezbollah's 2006 capture of several Israeli soldiers, the Israeli military's chief of staff, General Dan Halutz, called Hezbollah a "cancer" that Lebanon must get rid of "because if they don't, their country will pay a very high price." Senior officers in the IDF elaborated: "If the kidnapped soldiers are not returned alive and well, the Lebanese civilian infrastructures will regress 20 or even 50 years."43 Nor were such draconic threats limited to military officials; Eli Yishai and Haim Ramon, both cabinet members in the Olmert government, publicly threatened to "flatten" Lebanese villages.44
In addition to military and government officials, several leading figures in the general Israeli security establishment confirmed what Israel was doing. For example, Yossi Alpher, a former deputy chief of Mossad and senior adviser to Ehud Barak, argued that the humanitarian suffering in both Gaza and Lebanon, "is a deliberate act on Israel's part...intended to generate mass public pressure on the respective governments."45 Similarly, wrote Zeev Schiff, a long-time centrist defense analyst for Haaretz, "by encouraging large numbers of civilians to flee...to serve as a source of pressure," Israel was making "a strategic mistake." Such methods had led to the creation of Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Palestinian occupied territories.46
Even more remarkably, several years later Moshe Arens — a high Likud official and well-known rightist, a former ambassador to the United States in the Begin government, foreign minister in the Yitzhak Shamir government, and a three-time defense minister in Likud governments since the 1980s — wrote: "The 'leverage' theory — which holds that the destruction of enemy infrastructure and attacks on the enemy's civilian population will produce pressure on decision makers to cease their attacks against Israeli civilians….did not work in Lebanon, and it certainly does not work in Gaza. Quite the contrary, it only increases the support that the terrorists receive from the civilian population…. Cutting off fuel, cutting off electricity, preventing food from reaching them is both counterproductive and immoral."47
In 2008, an allegedly "new" Israeli military doctrine was announced by Gadi Eizenkot, a leading Israeli general. This so-called "Dahiya doctrine," named after a 2006 Israeli attack with 2,000-pound bombs on the residential Beirut suburb of Dahiya, made explicit and, in effect, official what until then had been obvious though unacknowledged: "What happened in 2006 will happen in every village from which Israel is fired on….We will apply disproportionate force on it and cause great damage and destruction….This is not a recommendation….It has been approved."48
Today Eizenkot is the IDF chief of staff.
In response to the Palestinian intifadas, Israel deliberately employed terrorist tactics to crush them, especially, but hardly limited to, three major military attacks on Gaza. In March 2002, Israeli forces invaded cities and refugee camps in the West Bank and Gaza, supposedly to root out "terrorists" but obviously having the much broader purpose of destroying the governing capacity of Yasser Arafat and the PA as well as to intimidate Palestinian civilians from supporting Hamas or Islamic Jihad attacks on Israel. In the course of the invasion, Israeli forces killed dozens of civilians, destroyed hundreds of homes, shut off water for over 10 days, and even attacked schools, ambulances and hospitals. Beyond that, the invading forces methodically and systematically destroyed Arafat's and the PA's security, governmental, public-health, education and other civic institutions.
The Israeli attack was extensively covered by the international and Israeli media as well as by a number of human-rights organizations. Jessica Montell, the head of Btselem, Israel's most important and prestigious human-rights organization, wrote, "The suffering of the [Palestinian] population is not merely a byproduct of Israel's attacks on militants. It is an intentional part of Israeli policy. The clear intention of the practice is to pressure the Palestinian Authority and the armed Palestinian organizations by harming the entire civilian population."49
Since Hamas came to power in Gaza in 2006 — in democratic elections — Israel has engaged in both economic and military warfare in that area, supposedly against Hamas but, in effect, against the civilian population as a whole. The economic warfare includes the ongoing (though recently somewhat eased) economic blockade or siege on Gazan trade and commerce: the prevention of exports of goods and products to other countries, severe restrictions on Palestinian drinking and agricultural water, substantial restrictions on the use of electrical power (mostly imported from Israel) and the prevention of farmers from reaching their lands and orchards and fishermen from fully plying their trade.
Beyond the economic warfare, there have been ongoing Israeli military attacks in Gaza as well as numerous death-squad assassinations of Hamas and Islamic Jihad activists. The two major military attacks were Operation Cast Lead in 2008-09 and Operation Protective Edge in 2014. I have written extensively about Cast Lead,50 so I will only briefly summarize the main facts: Israel deliberately attacked Gazan government institutions and police stations; economic targets, including transportation and communications networks, roads and bridges, electrical generation plants and power lines, industrial facilities and fuel depots; and even private homes, residential apartment houses, sewage plants, water-storage tanks, various food production systems (orchards, farms greenhouses and fishing boats), and hospitals and ambulances.
The generally accepted estimate is that, in Cast Lead, Israel directly killed some 1,400 Palestinians, two-thirds of them noncombatants, including hundreds of women and children, while losing only three noncombatants of their own. This, of course, does not include the far greater longer-term death, destruction and suffering of the civilian population of Gaza.
In November 2012, following a period of escalating military exchanges, Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire, which included an Israeli commitment to end its military attacks, assassinations and economic warfare in Gaza in exchange for the end of all attacks on Israel. According to the most detailed and credible discussion of the ceasefire, Hamas implemented its commitments but Israel violated them, continuing its economic blockade and making periodic incursions into Gaza.51
In June 2014, the Netanyahu government blamed Hamas for the kidnapping and murder of three Israeli yeshiva students in the West Bank, even though, as many Israeli security officials privately admitted, there was no evidence of, or a credible motive for, Hamas responsibility. Then, using the tragedy as a pretext, on July 8 Israel launched a massive air and ground attack on Hamas in Gaza (Operation Protective Edge). As in Cast Lead in 2009, Israel bombed from the air and fired over 30,000 shells into Gaza, many of them into densely populated areas, deliberately or indiscriminately striking many civilian targets, including homes, schools, hospitals, industries and workshops, agricultural facilities, roads, water and sewage-treatment plants and the main Gaza electrical power plant. According to UN and other international agencies, some 2,100-2,200 Palestinians were killed, up to three quarters of them civilians (including more than 500 children), and about 11,000 were wounded; 100,000 people were left homeless, and 100,000 buildings destroyed or damaged. In the course of the seven-week attack, 72 Israelis were killed, all but six of them military personnel.
A number of Israeli and international human-rights organizations have investigated Protective Edge and concluded that the Israeli attacks amounted to war crimes and possibly "crimes against humanity."52 One of the most extensive and devastating accounts is a highly detailed report by Amnesty International of the events of August 1-4, three weeks after the onset of the Israeli attack and the day after the Netanyahu government announced a ceasefire.53 However, on that same day, Hamas fighters captured an Israeli officer ("kidnapped," in the standard Israeli parlance) and dragged him into a tunnel. Israel responded with unprecedented fury, unleashing a four-day massive and wholly indiscriminate air, tank and artillery bombardment on a nearby Palestinian residential neighborhood. In some cases, according to Amnesty, "there are indications that they directly fired at and killed civilians, including people fleeing."
On the first day of the attack alone, the Amnesty report states, "more than 2,000 bombs, missiles and shells were fired,…including 1,000 in the three hours following the capture [of the Israeli officer]." As a result, hundreds of homes and apartment houses were leveled, an estimated 135-200 civilians were killed, and of course many more were wounded. Two ambulances were evidently deliberately targeted by drones, their inhabitants burned alive.
The purpose of these attacks, horrifying even by previous Israeli standards, was apparently twofold: "revenge" and "deterrence." The report puts it this way: "Public statements by Israeli army commanders and soldiers after the conflict provide compelling reasons to conclude that some attacks that killed civilians and destroyed homes and property were intentionally carried out and motivated by a desire for revenge — to teach a lesson to, or punish, the population of Rafah for the capture of Lieutenant Goldin." As well, the report continues,
These and other such statements, Amnesty concluded, "indicate an intention to generate material damage as a deterrent."
It is necessary to separate the issue of whether it was legitimate for the Jewish people to have a state of their own from the issue of where it could have been established. The argument is strong that, in light of centuries of murderous European anti-Semitism, in general, and the Holocaust, in particular, the establishment of a Jewish state was justifiable. On the other hand, the Zionist argument that such a state had to be in Palestine and nowhere else, regardless of the consequences for the Palestinians, was far less persuasive. Nonetheless, by 1948 there was no practical alternative for a Jewish state other than in Palestine. For that reason, the argument has been made — including by some leading Israelis who are otherwise appalled by Israel's policies since 1967 — that the moral wrongs of Zionist and Israeli terrorism and ethnic cleansing during the 1947-49 period were at least mitigated by the need to establish a viable state with a large Jewish majority. It was a just purpose, the argument holds, although an unjust means.
Even if one accepts that argument (a strong one, in my view), however, no such mitigation is available for Israeli terrorism since the end of the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, during which Israel took over the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem. Not only have the continuing Israeli attacks on Palestinian civilians and their institutions been unjust, so have their essential purposes: to maintain the occupation and prevent the Palestinians from reaching their just goal of an independent state.
Such is the power of Israeli mythology that after both Cast Lead and Protective Edge, even strong critics of the those attacks typically argued that "of course, Israel has the right to defend itself" from Hamas rocket attacks, but that its response was "excessive" or "disproportionate." Such criticisms are far too weak. Aggressor states have no "right of self-defense" when it is their criminality that has provoked violent resistance — and this holds true if their response is aimed only at military targets and is somehow "proportionate."
Matters would be different, of course, if Palestinian attacks on Israel were to be continued after it had withdrawn from the occupied territories and accepted a political settlement. Then, and only then, would Israel have a true just cause: a secure state within its legitimate territory and boundaries, and therefore an undeniable right of self-defense.
All non-terrorist actions the Palestinians have tried in order to win a state of their own have failed: armed resistance directed against military targets, political negotiations and compromise, and nonviolent protest. Therefore, it is reasonable to view Palestinian terrorism as truly a last resort. That doesn't necessarily make it morally defensible, or at least mitigable — if for no other reason than that it largely hasn't worked — but there is no avoiding the problem that the Palestinians genuinely have a desperate dilemma.
The Israelis have no such dilemma. Their only legitimate goal is to preserve their security within their legitimate borders, widely agreed to include their borders before the 1967 war. When Palestinian terrorism escalated after the breakdown of the Camp David negotiations in 2000 and the early 2001 election of Sharon, it was highly likely that Israel could have ended all or nearly all of that terrorism by negotiating an obtainable long-term ceasefire with Hamas and then a two-state political settlement. But not only did Israel refuse political negotiations with Hamas, it repeatedly violated ceasefire agreements and refused even to explore offers for a long-term truce and possibly even for a political settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.54
While all terrorism is morally wrong, it is still possible and perhaps necessary to make some distinctions. There can be degrees of moral wrong; we commonly make such distinctions and consider mitigating circumstances, especially between moral wrongs committed in pursuit of just causes and the double moral wrong of injustices done for unjust causes.55
For several reasons, Israeli terrorism has been morally worse than that of the Palestinians. First, at least since the 1980s, most — though not all — Palestinian terrorism has been largely driven by the just cause of national liberation in part of Palestine rather than the unjust one of the destruction of Israel. By contrast, while there is a strong case that Zionist terrorism was instrumental in the establishment of the state of Israel during the 1940s, a just cause, since at least 1967 Israeli terrorism has had no just cause. Contrary to the widely accepted mythology, its primary purpose has not been "self-defense" but rather the prevention of a two-state settlement and maintenance of the occupation and other forms of control over the Palestinians.
The just-cause issue aside, a second reason Israeli terrorism has been worse than that of the Palestinians is that its scale and extent have been far greater and more destructive. Numbers matter: the greater the number of innocent victims (other considerations being equal), the worse the immorality of terrorism. Indeed, the huge disparity in numbers aside, Israeli terrorism is also worse than Palestinian terrorism because it has often attacked the doubly innocent. When Palestinians plant bombs in Israeli cities, they are attacking the citizens of their enemy. This is bad enough. However, when Israel attacked Lebanese towns and cities, it was attacking the innocent citizens of a state that was to a great extent a helpless bystander or victim in an Israeli-Palestinian conflict over which it had no control.
Third, Palestinian terrorism comes much closer to meeting the just-war criterion of last resort, or the absence of alternatives. In their legitimate quest for independence and political sovereignty — not to mention dignity — the Palestinians have tried armed resistance against the Israeli occupying forces, negotiations and diplomacy, and nonviolent political action. None have worked. The Israelis have no such mitigating justification. They have repeatedly refused to agree to an increasingly obtainable political compromise with the Palestinians.
A final reason that Israeli terrorism is worse than Palestinian terrorism is that Israel is a democracy (however flawed). When it repeatedly elects as its prime ministers some of the worst Israeli terrorists — Yitzhak Shamir, Menachem Begin, Ariel Sharon — its people bear a far greater moral responsibility for the crimes of their government than do the Palestinians in Gaza, who live under the autocratic rule of Hamas. Indeed, a number of Israeli polls have shown that more Israelis demand from their government even greater violent repression of the Palestinians than oppose it. Even so, as "innocent civilians" or, more accurately, "noncombatants," the Israeli people are still not subject to legitimate attacks. However, they are surely less innocent than are the Palestinians.
All this said, the argument here should not be construed as a defense of Palestinian terrorism. In the final analysis, despite mitigating circumstances not available to Israel, Palestinian attacks on Israeli civilians — even those whose purpose is to end the occupation, let alone to destroy Israel — cannot be justified (as opposed to mitigated), either in terms of morality or, at least in recent years, in terms of their consequences.
As I have argued, while there is a reasonable case that Palestinian terrorism in the 1970-2000 period did bring international recognition to the plight of the Palestinians and probably resulted in some increase in the Israel public's willingness to consider a compromise two-state settlement, today the circumstances are different. Israeli attitudes have hardened, and Palestinian terrorism has backfired. The Palestinians have no other means of attaining their just cause other than through nonviolent resistance, international diplomacy and moral appeals to convince the United States to end its de facto support of the Israeli occupation.
Tragically, it must be admitted that all of these methods so far have failed and show little promise of success in the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the Palestinians and all those who support their demand for an end to the Israeli occupation and the establishment of an independent state have no morally acceptable or practical option but to keep trying.
1 Among other places, U.S. Department of State, Patterns of Global Terrorism 2001 (Washington D.C., May 2002), xvi.
2 There is a substantial and growing philosophical literature and debate on terrorism. Among the most important works, some of which specifically address the issue of terrorism in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, are T. Asad, "Thinking about Terrorism and Just War," Cambridge Review of International Affairs 23, no. 1 (2009): 3-24; C.A.J. Coady, "Terrorism, Just War and Supreme Emergency," in Coady and Michael O'Keefe, eds., Terrorism and Justice (Melbourne University Press, 2002), 31-42; C.A.J. Coady, "Terrorism and Innocence," The Journal of Ethics 8, no.1 (2004): 37-58; R.M. Hare, "On Terrorism," Journal of Value Inquiry 13 (1979): 240-49; Virginia Held, "Terrorism and War," Journal of Ethics 8, no. 1 (2004): 59-75; Ted Honderich, Humanity, Terrorism, Terrorist War: Palestine, 9/11, Iraq, 7/7 (Continuum Publishing Group, 2006); Jeff McMahan, Killing In War (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2009); Igor Primoratz, Terrorism: A Philosophical Investigation (Polity Press, 2013); and Andrew Valls, ed., Ethics in International Affairs: Theory and Cases (Rowman & Littlefield, 2000). Also see Allison Jaggar for a sophisticated review of the arguments over whether terrorism is ever justified: Jaggar, "What Is Terrorism, Why Is It Wrong, and Could It Ever Be Morally Permissible?" Journal of Social Philosophy 36, no. 2 (Summer 2005): 202-217.
3 C.A.J. Coady, Terrorism and Innocence, 58.
4 There are many works making this argument. Two of the most important are J. Bowyer Bell, Terror Out of Zion; The Fight for Israeli Independence (Transaction Publishers, 1996), and Bruce Hoffman, Anonymous Soldiers: The Struggle for Israel, 1917-1947 (Knopf, 2015).
5 Primoratz, Terrorism: A Philosophical Investigation (Polity Press, 2013), 148-49.
6 Max Abrahms, "Why Terrorism Doesn't Work," 73.
7 Zeev Schiff, "Ex-Mossad Chief: Hamas Offered 30-Year Ceasefire in 1997," Haaretz, March 30, 2006.
8 Shlomo Ben-Ami, Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), 267.
9 Barak's startling admission has been widely quoted in Israel. For example, see Akiva Eldar, "If I Were a Palestinian," Haaretz, April 27, 2009.
10 Uri Blau, "If I Were a Palestinian," Haaretz, January 5, 2007.
11Haaretz, September 24, 2003.
12 Klein, "Terrorism Rules," World Today, August/September 2002, 1-2.
13 Hillel Shocken, "Before We Blame the Palestinians," Haaretz, August 20, 2003.
14 David Landau, "False Frontier," Haaretz, September 5, 2003.
15 "A Historical Act by the Chief of Staff," Haaretz, November 2, 2003.
16 Avraham Burg, "A Failed Society Collapses While Its Leaders Remain Silent," Yediot Aharonot, August 29, 2003.
17 David Forman, "Put Sharon on Trial. Here." Haaretz, February 13, 2003.
18 In a 2012 interview in the Israeli film documentary, "The Gatekeepers."
19 Barak Ravid, "In 2006 Letter to Bush, Haniyeh Offered Compromise with Israel," Haaretz, November 14, 2008.
20 Danny Rubinstein, "Don't Boycott the Palestinians," Haaretz, February 13, 2006.
21 Arnon Regular, "Hamas, Fatah Prisoners Agree to Two-State Solution in Joint Draft," Haaretz, May 11, 2006.
22 Quoted in Scott Atran, "Is Hamas Ready to Deal?" New York Times, August 17, 2006.
23 Avi Issacharoff, "PM Dismisses Meshal Comments That Israel's Existence Is a Reality," Haaretz, April 2, 2008.
24 Avi Issacharoff, "Meshal: Hamas Backs a Palestinian State in '67 Borders," Haaretz, April 2, 2008.
25 Quoted in Fares Akram, "Hamas Says That Its Political Leader Does Not Plan to Seek Re-election," New York Times, January 22, 2014.
26 "Is Hamas Really Willing to Change?" Haaretz, Decemer 7, 2010.
27 Merav Michaeli, "Israel Is Missing Another Opportunity for Peace," Haaretz, January 2, 2012.
28 Amos Harel and Avi Issacharoff, "Hamas' Change of Strategy: Rocket Fire Directed at Israeli Military Targets," Haaretz, June 20, 2012.
29 Baskin wrote an oped in the New York Times describing the event: "Israel's Shortsighted Assassination," November 17, 2014.
30 Reuven Pedatzur, "Why Did Israel Kill Jabari?" Haaretz, December 4, 2012.
31 For details on the agreement, see Jack Khoury and Barak Ravid, "Hamas, Fatah Sign Reconciliation Agreement," Haaretz, April 23, 2014. For discussions emphasizing the significance of the agreement, see Nathan Thrall, "Hamas's Chances," London Review of Books, August 21, 2014; Paul Pillar, "Dedication, Destruction and Hamas," National Interest, August 2, 2014; and John Judis, "Who Bears More Responsibility for the War in Gaza? A Primer," New Republic, July 25, 2014. After reviewing the evidence, Judis concludes: "Hamas's charter can't be used as an excuse by Israel to prolong the occupation."
32 Meron Benvenisti, "An Explosive, Dangerous Balance," Haaretz, Feburary 27, 2008.
33 Quoted in the most important work on the Iron Wall concept and its influence on Zionist/Israeli policies: Avi Shlaim, The Iron Wall; Israel and the Arab World (New York: W.W. Norton & Co, 2000), 13.
34 Ibid., 233-34. The quotations are Shlaim's summary of Rabin's position.
35 Quoted by Yaacov Bar-Siman-Tov, The Israeli-Egyptian War of Attrition (New York: Columbia University Press, 1980), 122.
36 Shlaim, Iron Wall, 292.
37 David K. Shipler, Arab and Jew: Wounded Spirits in a Promised Land (New York: Penguin, 1986), 45.
38 The literature on the Israeli attacks on Lebanon is extensive, including major books by Israeli writers, journalists and soldiers, as well as extensive reports of human-rights organizations. I sum up this evidence in Jerome Slater, "Just War Moral Philosophy and the 2008-09 Campaign in Gaza," International Security (Fall 2012): 47-51.
39 From an interview with Gur in the May 10, 1978, edition of the Israeli newspaper Al Hamishar.
40Haaretz, May 15, 1978.
41 The Begin letter was printed in Haaretz, August 4, 1981.
42 Eban's response, "Morality and Warfare," was published in the Jerusalem Post, August 16, 1981.
43 Amos Harel, "Israel Prepares for Widespread Escalation," Haaretz, July 12, 2006.
44 Quoted by Tom Segev, "Three Theses for the Committee's Examination," Haaretz, August 18, 2006.
45 "An Integral Part of This Conflict," Bitter Lemons, July 17, 2006.
46 Schiff, "A Strategic Mistake," Haaretz, July 20, 2006.
47 Arens, "Too Much To Expect," Haaretz, March 5, 2008.
48 The Eizenkot statement has been widely quoted in Israel. See also Rashid Khalidi, "The Dahiya Doctrine, Proportionality, and War Crimes," Journal of Palestine Studies 44, no. 1 (Autumn 2014): 5-13.
49 Montell, "A Form of Collective Punishment," Bitter Lemons, July 17, 2006.
50 Slater, "Just War."
51 Thrall, "Hamas's Chances."
52 The major reports by Israeli and international human-rights organizations include those of Amnesty International (http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/05/world/middleeast/amnesty-international-says-israel-showed-callous-indifference-to-gaza-civilians.html?ref=topics); Physicians for Human Rights-Israel (http://gazahealthattack.com/2015/01/20/no-safe-place-gaza-health-attack-full-report/); Human Rights Watch (http://www.hrw.org/news/2014/09/11/israel-depth-look-gaza-school-attacks); B'Tselem (http://www.btselem.org/publications/summaries/201501_black_flag); and the recent report of the UN Independent Commission of Inquiry on the 2014 Gaza Conflict (http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/CoIGazaConflict/Pages/ReportCoIGaz…).
53 "'Black Friday,' Carnage in Rafah During 2014 Israel/Gaza Conflict," https://blackfriday.amnesty.org/.
54 For a detailed discussion of Israeli violations of ceasefires, see Slater, "Just War," 58-62.
55 In a report to the United Nations, John Dugard, the Special Rapporteur in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to the UN Human Rights Council, an internationally renowned South African scholar and a leading opponent of apartheid in the 1980s, made that argument: "Common sense….dictates that a distinction must be drawn between acts of mindless terror, such as acts committed by Al-Qaeda, and acts committed in the course of a war of national liberation…..While Palestinian terrorist acts are to be deplored, they must be understood as being a painful but inevitable consequence of colonialism, apartheid or occupation….As long as there is occupation, there will be terrorism" (quoted in Haaretz, Feb. 27, 2008).
  The history of terrorism is probably coextensive with the history of political violence. The term “terrorism”, however, is relatively recent: it has been in use since late 18th century. Its use has repeatedly shifted in some significant respects. Moreover, in contemporary political discourse the word is often employed as a polemical term whose strong emotional charge occludes its somewhat vague descriptive meaning. All this tends to get in the way of sustained rational discussion of the nature and moral standing of terrorism and the best ways of coping with it.
  When it first entered public discourse in the West, the word “terrorism” meant the reign of terror the Jacobins imposed in France from the fall of 1793 to the summer of 1794. Its ultimate aim was the reshaping of both society and human nature. That was to be achieved by destroying the old regime, suppressing all enemies of the revolutionary government, and inculcating and enforcing civic virtue. A central role in attaining these objectives was accorded to revolutionary tribunals which had wide authority, were constrained by very few rules of procedure, and saw their task as carrying out revolutionary policy rather than meting out legal justice of the more conventional sort. They went after “enemies of the people”, actual or potential, proven or suspected; the law on the basis of which they were operating “enumerated just who the enemies of the people might be in terms so ambiguous as to exclude no one” (Carter 1989: 142). The standard punishment was death. Trials and executions were meant to strike terror in the hearts of all who lacked civic virtue; the Jacobins believed that was a necessary means of consolidating the new regime. This necessity provided both the rationale of the reign of terror and its moral justification. As Robespierre put it, terror was but “an emanation of virtue”; without it, virtue remained impotent. Accordingly, the Jacobins applied the term to their own actions and policies quite unabashedly, without any negative connotations.
  Yet the term “terrorism” and its cognates soon took on very strong negative connotations. Critics of the excesses of the French Revolution had watched its reign with horror from the start. Terrorism came to be associated with drastic abuse of power and related to the notion of tyranny as rule based on fear, a recurring theme in political philosophy.
  In the second half of the 19th century, there was a shift in both descriptive and evaluative meaning of the term. Disillusioned with other methods of political struggle, some anarchist and other revolutionary organizations, and subsequently some nationalist groups too, took to political violence. They had come to the conclusion that words were not enough, and what was called for were deeds: extreme, dramatic deeds that would strike at the heart of the unjust, oppressive social and political order, generate fear and despair among its supporters, demonstrate its vulnerability to the oppressed, and ultimately force political and social change. This was “propaganda by the deed”, and the deed was for the most part assassination of royalty or highly placed government officials. Unlike the Jacobins' reign of terror, which operated in a virtually indiscriminate way, this type of terrorism—as both advocates and critics called it—was largely employed in a highly discriminate manner. This was especially true of Russian revolutionary organizations such as People's Will or Socialist Revolutionary Party (SR): they held that it was morally justified to assassinate a government official only if his complicity in the oppressive regime was significant enough for him to deserve to die, and the assassination would make an important contribution to the struggle. Their violence steered clear of other, uninvolved or insufficiently involved persons. Some instances of “propaganda by the deed” carried out by French and Spanish anarchists in the 1880s and 1890s were indiscriminate killings of common citizens; but that was an exception, rather than the rule. The perpetrators and some of those sympathetic to their cause claimed those acts were nevertheless morally legitimate, whether as retribution (exacted on the assumption that no member of the ruling class was innocent) or as a means necessary for the overthrow of the unjust order. Accordingly, in their parlance, too, the term “terrorism” implied no censure. When used by others, it conveyed a strong condemnation of the practice.
  The terrorism employed by both sides in the Russian Revolution and Civil War was in important respects a throwback to that of the Jacobins. The government set up in Russia by the victorious Bolsheviks was totalitarian. So was the Nazi rule in Germany. Both sought to impose total political control on society. Such a radical aim could only be pursued by a similarly radical method: by terrorism directed by an extremely powerful political police at an atomized and defenseless population. Its success was due largely to its arbitrary character—to the unpredictability of its choice of victims. In both countries, the regime first suppressed all opposition; when it no longer had any opposition to speak of, political police took to persecuting “potential” and “objective opponents”. In the Soviet Union, it was eventually unleashed on victims chosen at random. Totalitarian terrorism is the most extreme and sustained type of state terrorism. As Hannah Arendt put it, “terror is the essence of totalitarian domination”, and the concentration camp is “the true central institution of totalitarian organizational power” (Arendt 1958: 464, 438). While students of totalitarianism talked of terrorism as its method of rule, representatives of totalitarian regimes, sensitive to the pejorative connotation of the word, portrayed the practice as defense of the state from internal enemies.
  However, state terrorism is not the preserve of totalitarian regimes. Some non-totalitarian states have resorted to terrorism against enemy civilians as a method of warfare, most notably when the RAF and USAAF bombed German and Japanese cities in World War II (see Lackey 2004). Those who designed and oversaw these campaigns never publicly described them as “terror bombing”, but that was how they often referred to them in internal communications.
  After the heyday of totalitarian terrorism in the 1930s and 1940s, internal state terrorism continued to be practiced by military dictatorships in many parts of the world, albeit in a less sustained and pervasive way. But the type of terrorism that came to the fore in the second half of the 20th century and in early 21st century is that employed by insurgent organizations. Many movements for national liberation from colonial rule resorted to it, either as the main method of struggle or as a tactic complementing guerrilla warfare. So did some separatist movements. Some organizations driven by extreme ideologies, in particular on the left, took to terrorism as the way of trying to destroy what they considered an unjust, oppressive economic, social and political system. This type of terrorism is, by and large, indiscriminate in its choice of target: it attacks men and women of whatever political (or apolitical) views, social class, and walk of life; young and old, adults and children. It shoots at people, or blows them up by planting bombs, in office buildings, markets, cafes, cinemas, places of religious worship, on buses or planes, or in other vulnerable public places. It also takes people hostage, by hijacking planes and in other ways.
  As “terrorism” has by now acquired a very strong pejorative meaning, no-one applies the word to their own actions or to actions and campaigns of those they sympathize with. Insurgents practicing terrorism portray their actions as struggle for liberation and seek to be considered and treated as soldiers rather than terrorists or criminals. They often depict their enemy—the alien government, or the agencies of the social, political and economic system—as the “true terrorists”. For them, the test of terrorism is not what is done, but rather what the ultimate aim of doing it is. If the ultimate aim is liberation or justice, the violence used in order to attain it is not terrorism, whereas the violence aiming at maintaining oppression or injustice, or some of the “structural violence” embodying it, is. On the other hand, governments tend to paint all insurgent violence with the brush of “terrorism”. Government spokespersons and pro-government media typically assume that terrorism is by definition something done by non-state agents, and that a state can never be guilty of terrorism (although it can sponsor terrorist organizations). For them, the test of terrorism is not what is done, but who does it. When a state agency uses violence, it is an act of war, or reprisal, or defense of the security of the state and its citizens; when an insurgent group does the same, it is terrorism. Under these circumstances, one person's terrorist is indeed another's freedom fighter, and public debate about terrorism is largely conducted at cross purposes and to little effect. Attempts of the United Nations to propose a definition of “terrorism” that could be accepted by all states and embedded in international law so far have been frustrated by the same sort of relativism. Islamic countries would accept no definition that allowed national liberation movements in the Middle East and Kashmir to be portrayed as terrorist, whereas Western countries would accept no definition that allowed for state agencies to be guilty of terrorism.
  The evaluative meaning of “terrorism” has shifted considerably more than once. So has its descriptive meaning, but to a lesser degree. Whatever else the word may have meant, its ordinary use over more than two centuries has typically indicated two things: violence and intimidation (the causing of great fear or terror, terrorizing). The dominant approach to the conceptual question in philosophical literature reflects this. Terrorism is usually understood as a type of violence. This violence is not blind or sadistic, but rather aims at intimidation and at some further political, social, or religious goal or, more broadly, at coercion.
  That is how (political) “terrorism” is defined by Per Bauhn in the first philosophical book-length study in English:
  Another good example of a mainstream definition is provided in C.A.J. Coady's article on terrorism in the Encyclopedia of Ethics:
  Yet another example is the definition proposed by Igor Primoratz:
  These definitions put aside both the question of who the actor is and the question of what their ultimate objectives are, and focus on what is done and what the proximateaim of doing it is. They present terrorism as a way of acting that could be adopted by different agents and serve various ultimate objectives (most, but perhaps not all of them, political). It can be employed by states or by non-state agents, and may promote national liberation or oppression, revolutionary or conservative causes (and possibly pursue some nonpolitical aims as well). One can be a terrorist and a freedom fighter; terrorism is not the monopoly of enemies of freedom. One can hold high government or military office and design or implement a terrorist campaign; terrorism is not the preserve of insurgents. In this way much of the relativism concerning who is and who is not a terrorist that has plagued contemporary public debate (see 1.1.4 above) can be overcome.
  Beyond concurring that violence and intimidation constitute the core of terrorism, the definitions quoted above differ in several respects. Does only actual violence count, or do threats of violence also qualify? Must terrorist violence be directed against life and limb, or does violence against (some) property also count? Does terrorism always seek to attain some political goal, or can there be non-political (e.g. criminal) terrorism? All these points are minor. There is also one major difference: while Coady and Primoratz define terrorism as violence against non-combatants or innocent people, respectively, Bauhn's definition includes no such restriction. Definitions of the former type can be termed “narrow”, and those of the latter sort “wide”. Philosophical literature on terrorism abounds in instances of both types.
  Should we adopt a wide or a narrow definition? A wide definition encompasses the entire history of “terrorism” from the Jacobins to the present, and is more in accord with current ordinary use. A narrow definition departs from much ordinary use by restricting terrorist violence to that directed at non-combatants or innocent persons. Thus it leaves out most of 19th century “propaganda by the deed” and political violence perpetrated by Russian revolutionaries which they themselves and the public called terrorist.
  For these reasons, historians of terrorism normally work with a wide definition, and social scientists do so much of the time. But philosophers may well prefer a narrow definition. They focus on the moral standing of terrorism and need a definition that is particularly helpful in moral discourse. Morally speaking, surely there is a difference—for some, a world of difference—between planting a bomb in a government building and killing a number of highly placed officials of (what one considers) an unjust and oppressive government, and planting a bomb in a tea shop and killing a random collection of common citizens, including children. While both acts raise serious moral issues, these issues are not identical, and running them together under the same heading of “terrorism” will likely hamper, rather than help, discerning moral assessment.
  Narrow definitions are revisionary, but (unlike those discussed in the next section) not implausibly so. They focus on the traits of terrorism that cause most of us to view the practice with deep moral repugnance: (i) violence (ii) against non-combatants (or, alternatively, against innocent people) for the sake of (iii) intimidation (and, on some definitions, (iv) coercion). In highlighting (ii), they relate the issue of terrorism to the ethics of war and one of the fundamental principles of just war theory, that of non-combatant immunity. They help distinguish terrorism from acts of war proper and political assassination, which do not target non-combatants or common citizens. It does not matter very much whether the victims of terrorism are described as “non-combatants” or “innocent people”, as each term is used in a technical sense, and both refer to those who have not lost their immunity against lethal or other extreme violence by being directly involved in, or highly responsible for, (what terrorists consider) insufferable injustice or oppression. In war, these are innocent civilians; in a violent conflict that falls short of war, these are common citizens.
  Is the injustice or oppression at issue, and thus the standing of those implicated in it, to be determined by some objective criteria, or from the point of view of those who resort to violence? Coady chooses the former option. He approaches terrorism from the standpoint of just war theory and its principle of noncombatant immunity. “Combatants” is a technical term designating agents of aggression or, more broadly, “dangerous wrongdoers” or “agents of harm”; they are legitimate targets of potentially lethal violence. All others are noncombatants, and enjoy immunity from such violence (Coady 2004). This approach may not be difficult to apply in war, where the wrong or harm at issue is either aggression that needs to be repelled, or systematic and large-scale violations of human rights that provide the ground for humanitarian intervention. Issues of injustice or oppression that arise in an internal conflict that falls short of war, however, tend to be highly contentious: what some consider an imperfect, but basically morally legitimate political and social order, others may see as the epitome of injustice and oppression that must be overthrown, if need be by violence. Under such circumstances, when a highly placed political official is killed by insurgents, that may be characterized (and condemned) by many as an act of terrorism, while the insurgents and those sympathetic to their struggle may reject this characterization and portray (and justify) the killing as political assassination.
  In order to avoid this kind of relativism, Primoratz puts forward a view that in one important respect takes on board the standpoint of the terrorist. The direct victims of terrorism are innocent in the sense of not being responsible, on any credible understanding of responsibility and liability, for the injustice or oppression the terrorists fight against—not responsible at all, or at least not responsible to the degree that makes them liable to be killed or maimed on that account. The injustice or oppression at issue need not be real; it may be merely alleged (by the terrorists). Being responsible for a merely alleged great injustice or oppression is enough for losing one's immunity against violence, as far as the type of immunity and innocence relevant to defining terrorism is concerned. According to mainstream just war theory one does not lose immunity against acts of war only by fighting in an unjust war, but by fighting in any war (Walzer 2000: 36–41). Similarly, one does not lose immunity against political violence only by holding office in or implementing policies of a gravely unjust government, but by holding office in or implementing policies of any government: as King Umberto I of Italy said after surviving an assassination attempt, such risk comes with the job. Members of these two classes are not considered innocent and morally protected against violence by those attacking them; the latter view their acts as acts of war proper or of political assassination, respectively. If the terrorists subscribe to a credible view of responsibility and liability, then, when they attack common citizens, they attack people innocent from their own point of view, i.e., innocent even if we grant the terrorists their assessment of the policies at issue. (This is not to say that those who consider a government to be gravely unjust have a moral license to kill its officials, but only that if they do so, that will not be terrorism, but rather political assassination. We can still condemn their actions if we reject their judgment of the policies at issue, or if we accept that judgment, but believe that they should have opposed those policies by nonviolent means. But we will not be condemning their actions qua terrorism.)
  On this account, not only real, but also merely alleged injustice or oppression counts in determining the innocence of the victims and deciding which acts are acts of terrorism; thus such decisions are not hostage to endless debates about the moral status of contested policies. Nevertheless, a residue of relativity remains. The account presupposes a certain understanding of responsibility and liability: a person is responsible for a state of affairs only by virtue of that person's voluntary, i.e., informed and free, act or omission that has a sufficiently strong connection with that state of affairs, and thereby becomes liable to some proportionately unfavorable response. Provided the terrorists accept some such understanding of responsibility and liability, they kill and maim people they themselves must admit to be innocent. To be sure, some militant organizations resort to violence which we perceive as terrorist, yet object to the label. They profess a view of responsibility and liability based on extremely far-fetched connections between states of affairs and human choices and actions, and argue that entire social classes or nations are responsible for certain policies and practices and all their members are liable to be attacked by deadly violence (see 2.1 below). Such arguments can only be regarded as preposterous. We should insist on viewing their actions as terrorist, although they reject this description. It is not clear how this residue of relativity could be removed (Primoratz 2013: 16-21).
  Some object to defining “terrorism” as violence against non-combatants or innocent persons. They argue that doing so runs together the question of the nature of terrorism and that of its moral status, and begs the moral issue by making terrorism unjustified by definition. We should rather keep these questions separate, and take care not to prejudge the latter by giving a wrong answer to the former.  What is needed is a morally neutral definition of terrorism, and that means a wide one (Corlett 2003: 114–20, 134–35; Young 2004: 57). But it is doubtful that “terrorism” can be defined in some morally untainted way. The wide definitions these philosophers adopt contain the word “violence”, which is itself morally loaded. A narrow definition is not completely morally neutral, as violence against the innocent is clearly morally wrong. But what is clear is that such violence is prima facie wrong. The definition implies a general presumption against terrorism, not its sweeping moral condemnation in each and every instance, whatever the circumstances and whatever the consequences of desisting from it. The definition does not rule out that in certain circumstances it might not be wrong, all things considered. Ethical investigation is not preempted: a particular case of terrorism still needs to be judged on its merits.
  Another way of settling the issue of wide vs. narrow definition is offered by Georg Meggle. He adopts a wide definition of terrorism, and goes on to distinguish two different types: terrorism in the strong sense, which deliberately, recklessly, or negligently harms innocent people, and terrorism in the weak sense, which does not. Obviously, the moral assessment of the two types of terrorism is going to be significantly different (Meggle 2005).
  The vast majority of cases almost anyone without an ax to grind would want to classify as “terrorism” exhibit the two traits implied in ordinary use and highlighted by mainstream philosophical definitions such as those quoted above: violence and intimidation. But philosophical literature also offers definitions that leave out one or the other core component.
  Some seek to sever the connection between terrorism and violence. Carl Wellman defines terrorism as “the use or attempted use of terror as a means of coercion”. Terrorism is often associated with violence, but that is because violence is a very effective means of intimidation. Yet “violence is not essential to terrorism and, in fact, most acts of terrorism are nonviolent” (Wellman 1979: 250–51). The last claim seems false on any non-circular interpretation. There may be many acts generally considered terrorist that do not involve actual violence, but are meant to intimidate by threatening it; but that is not enough to support the notion of “non-violent terrorism”, which seems odd. So does Wellman's example of “classroom terrorism”: a professor threatens to fail students who submit their essays after the due date, causes panic in class, and thereby engages in terrorism.
  Robert E. Goodin offers a similar account, emphasizing the political role of terrorism: terrorism is “a political tactic, involving the deliberate frightening of people for political advantage” (Goodin 2006: 49). This, he claims, is the distinctive wrong terrorists commit. Whereas on Wellman's account one can commit an act of terrorism without either engaging in or threatening violence, merely by making a threat in order to intimidate, on Goodin's account one need not even make a threat: one acts as a terrorist by merely issuing a warning about the acts of others that is meant to intimidate. This, too, seems arbitrary, although it makes sense as a step in an argument meant to show that “if (or insofar as) Western political leaders are intending to frighten people for their own political advantage, then (to that extent) they are committing the same core wrong that is distinctively associated with terrorism” (Goodin 2006: 2).
  It has also been suggested that terrorism need not be understood as inducing terror or fear. According to Ted Honderich, terrorism is best defined as “violence, short of war, political, illegal and prima facie wrong” (Honderich 2006: 88). This definition might be thought problematic on several counts, but the idea of “terrorism” without “terror” seems especially odd. The two are connected etymologically and historically, and this connection is deeply entrenched in current ordinary use. Intimidation is not the morally salient trait of terrorism (pace Goodin), but it is one of its core traits that cause most of us to condemn the practice. We might consider severing the connection if Honderich offered a good reason for doing so. But he supports his highly revisionary definition by the puzzling claim that to define terrorism as violence meant to intimidate is to imply that terrorism is particularly abhorrent and thereby “in effect … invite a kind of prima facie approval or tolerance of war” (Honderich 2006: 93).
  Can terrorism be morally justified? There is no single answer to this question, as there is no single conception of what terrorism is. If we put aside definitions that depart too much, and for no compelling reason, from the core meaning of “terrorism” (such as those cited in 1.2.3), we still need to decide whether the question assumes a wide or a narrow understanding of terrorism. A narrow conception of terrorism seems to be better suited to ethical investigation (1.2.2). Moreover, philosophers who work with a wide definition typically hold that terrorism that targets non-combatants or innocent persons is much more difficult to justify than “selective” terrorism which attacks only those who cannot plausibly claim innocence of the injustice or oppression at issue (and which accordingly does not count as “terrorism” on a narrow definition of the term). The present discussion therefore focuses on terrorism understood as violence against innocent civilians or common citizens, intended to intimidate and thereby to achieve some further (political) objective or, more broadly, to coerce.
  One might try to justify some acts or campaigns of violence of this kind in two ways. One could argue that the victims may be non-combatants or common citizens, but nevertheless are not innocent of the wrongs the terrorists are fighting against. Alternatively, one could concede the innocence of the victims and argue that attacks on them are nevertheless justified, either by their consequences on balance, or by some deontological considerations.
  If the former line of argument is successful, will it prove too much? In showing that an instance of violence was justified because those targeted were not really innocent, we will have shown that the act or campaign of violence at issue was actually not a case of terrorism. This may be merely a matter of semantics. There is a much more damaging objection. A terrorist act is characteristically the killing or injuring of a random collection of people who happen to be in a certain place at a certain time. Arguments to the effect that those people are not innocent of the wrongs the terrorist fights against will therefore have a very wide reach, and accordingly will be based on some simplistic conception of collective responsibility. These arguments will be of the sort offered, for example, by the 19th century anarchist Emile Henry. He planted a bomb at the office of a mining company which, if it had exploded, would have killed or injured a number of people who did not work for the company, but lived in the same building. He also planted a bomb in a café that did go off, injuring twenty people, one of whom later died of his injuries. At his trial, Henry explained: “What about the innocent victims? […] The building where the Carmeaux Company had its offices was inhabited only by the bourgeois; hence there would be no innocent victims. The whole of the bourgeoisie lives by the exploitation of the unfortunate, and should expiate its crimes together” (Henry 1977: 193). When commenting on the second attack, he said:
  This is an utterly implausible view of responsibility and liability. It claims that all members of a social class—men and women, young and old, adults and children—are liable to be killed or maimed: some for operating the system of exploitation, others for supporting it, and still others for benefiting from it. Even if, for the sake of argument, we grant the anarchist's harsh moral condemnation of capitalist society, not every type and degree of involvement with it can justify the use of extreme violence. Giving the system political support, or benefiting from it, may be morally objectionable, but is surely not enough to make one liable to be blown to pieces.
  Another, more recent example, is provided by Osama Bin Laden. In an interview in the aftermath of the attacks on September 11, 2001 he said:
  This, too, is a preposterous understanding of responsibility and liability. For it claims that all Americans are eligible to be killed or maimed: some for devising and implementing America's policies, others for participating in the political process, still others for paying taxes. Even if, for the sake of argument, we grant Bin Laden's severe condemnation of those policies, not every type and degree of involvement with them can justify the use of lethal violence. Surely voting in elections or paying taxes is not enough to make one fair game.
  Attempts at justification of terrorism that concede that its victims are innocent seem more promising. They fall into two groups, depending on the type of ethical theory on which they are based.
  Adherents of consequentialism judge terrorism, like every other practice, solely by its consequences. Terrorism is not considered wrong in itself, but only if it has bad consequences on balance. The innocence of the victims does not change that. This is an instance of a general trait of consequentialism often highlighted by its critics, for example in the debate about the moral justification of legal punishment. A standard objection to the consequentialist approach to punishment has been that it implies that punishment of the innocent is justified, when its consequences are good on balance. This objection can only get off the ground because consequentialism denies that in such matters a person's innocence is morally significant in itself.
  Those who consider terrorism from a consequentialist point of view differ in their assessment of its morality. Their judgment on terrorism depends on their view of the good to be promoted by its use and on their assessment of the utility of terrorism as a means of promoting it. There is room for disagreement on both issues.
  Kai Nielsen approaches questions to do with political violence in general and terrorism in particular as a consequentialist in ethics and a socialist in politics. The use of neither can be ruled out categorically; it all depends on their utility as a method for attaining morally and politically worthwhile objectives such as “a truly socialist society” or liberation from colonial rule. “When and where [either] should be employed is a tactical question that must be decided … on a case-by-case basis … like the choice of weapon in a war” (Nielsen 1981: 435). Nielsen has a wide definition of terrorism, but his examples show that the innocence of the victims of terrorism makes no difference to its justification—that is, that his conclusions apply to terrorism in both the wide and narrow sense. In his view,
  Historical experience, in Nielsen's view, tells us that terrorism on a small scale, used as the sole method of struggle in order to provoke the masses into revolutionary action, is ineffective and often counterproductive. On the other hand, terrorism employed in conjunction with guerrilla warfare in a protracted war of liberation may well prove useful and therefore also justified, as it did in Algeria and South Vietnam. (For an earlier statement of the same view, see Trotsky 1961: 48–59, 62–65.)
  Nicholas Fotion also uses a wide definition of terrorism. He, too, is a consequentialist (although some of his remarks concerning the innocence of many victims of terrorism might be more at home in nonconsequentialist ethics). But he finds standard consequentialist assessments of terrorism such as Nielsen's too permissive. If some types of terrorism are justifiable under certain circumstances, such circumstances will be extremely rare. Terrorists and their apologists do not perform the requisite calculations properly. One problem is the “higher good” to be promoted by terrorism: more often than not, it is defined in ideological terms, rather than derived from settled preferences or interests of actual people. But for the most part Fotion discusses the issue of means. If a terrorist act or campaign is to be justified instrumentally, it must be shown (1) that the end sought is good enough to justify the means, (2) that the end will indeed be achieved by means of terrorism, and (3) that the end cannot be achieved in any other way that is morally and otherwise less costly. Terrorists not only, as a matter of fact, fail to discharge this burden; Fotion argues that, with regard to terrorism that victimizes innocent people, it cannot be discharged. All direct victims of terrorism are treated as objects to be used—indeed, used  up—by the terrorist. But
  In reply, terrorists can claim that they advisedly sacrifice valued human beings for a higher good. But for this claim to carry any conviction, they would have to show that they have no alternative. Yet, Fotion argues, they always have the alternative of taking on the opponent's military establishment, and often also have the option of going after government officials responsible for the wrongs they object to, instead of attacking innocent persons. That kind of terrorism may sometimes be justified, whereas terrorism that targets innocent people never is.
  Within a nonconsequentialist approach to morality, terrorism is considered wrong in itself, because of what it is, rather than only because (and insofar as) its consequences are bad on balance. But this is not to say that this approach leaves no room whatever for morally justifying certain acts or campaigns of terrorism. Indeed, nonconsequentialist discussions of terrorism also present a range of positions and arguments.
  A nonconsequentialist might try to justify an act or campaign of terrorism in one of two ways. One might invoke some deontological considerations, such as justice or rights, in favor of resorting to terrorism under certain circumstances. Alternatively, one might argue that the obvious, and obviously very weighty, considerations of rights (of the victims of terrorism) and justice (which demands respect for those rights) may sometimes be overridden by extremely weighty considerations of consequences—an extremely high price that would be paid for not resorting to terrorism. For the rejection of consequentialism is of course not tantamount to denying that consequences of our actions, policies, and practices matter in their moral assessment; what is denied is the consequentialists' claim that only consequences matter.
  Virginia Held operates with a broad notion of terrorism, but her justification of terrorism is meant to apply to terrorism that targets common citizens. Her discussion of the subject focuses on the issue of rights. When rights of a person or group are not respected, what may we do in order to ensure that they are? On one view, known as consequentialism of rights, if the only way to ensure respect of a certain right of A and B is to infringe the same right of C, we shall be justified in doing so. Held does not hold that such trade-offs in rights with the aim of maximizing their respect in a society are appropriate. Yet rights sometimes come into conflict, whether directly or indirectly (as in the above example). When that happens, there is no way we can avoid comparing the rights involved as more or less stringent and making certain choices between them. That applies to the case of terrorism too. Terrorism obviously violates some human rights of its victims. But its advocates claim that in some circumstances a limited use of terrorism is the only way of bringing about a society where human rights of all will be respected.
  Even when this claim is true, that is not enough to make resort to terrorism justified. But it will be justified if an additional condition is met: that of distributive justice. If there is a society where the human rights of a part of the population are respected, while the same rights of another part of the population are being violated; if the only way of changing that and ensuring that human rights of all are respected is a limited use of terrorism; finally, if terrorism is directed against members of the first group, which up to now has been privileged as far as respect of human rights is concerned—then terrorism will be morally justified. This is a justification in terms of distributive justice, applied to the problem of violations of human rights. It is more just to equalize the violations of human rights in a stage of transition to a society where the rights of all are respected, than to allow that the group which has already suffered large-scale violations of human rights suffer even more such violations (assuming that in both cases we are dealing with violations of the same, or equally stringent, human rights). Human rights of many are going to be violated in any case; it is more just, and therefore morally preferable, that their violations should be distributed in a more equitable way (Held 2008).
  It might be objected that in calling for sacrificing such basic human rights as the right to life and to bodily security of individual victims of terrorism for the sake of a more just distribution of violations of the same rights within a group in the course of transition to a stage where these rights will be respected throughout that group, Held offends against the principles of separateness of persons and respect for persons (Primoratz 1997: 230–31). In response, Held argues that
  An argument for achieving a just distribution of rights violations is not necessarily about groups; it can be an argument about the rights of individuals to fairness (Held 2008: 89–90). (For further objections to Held's argument, see Steinhoff 2007: 125–30; Nath 2011.)
  In Held's justification of terrorism, it is justice that requires that inescapable violations of human rights be more evenly distributed. There is a different way of allowing for the use of terrorism under certain circumstances within a nonconsequentialist approach to the ethics of violence. It could be argued that, as far as justice and rights are concerned, terrorism (or, in Held's terminology, the kind of terrorism that targets the innocent) is never justified. Furthermore, considerations of justice and rights carry much greater weight than considerations of good and bad consequences, and therefore normally trump the latter in cases of conflict. However, in exceptional circumstances considerations concerning  consequences—the price of not resorting to terrorism—may be so extremely weighty as to override those of justice and rights.
  Michael Walzer offers an argument along these lines in his discussion of “terror bombing” of German cities in World War II. In early 1942, it seemed that Britain would be defeated by Germany and that its military could not prevail while fighting in accordance with the rules of war. Britain was the only remaining obstacle to the subjugation of most of Europe by the Nazis. That was “an ultimate threat to everything decent in our lives, an ideology and a practice of domination so murderous, so degrading even to those who might survive, that the consequences of its final victory were literally beyond calculation, immeasurably awful” (Walzer 2000: 253). Thus Britain was facing a “supreme emergency”: an (a) imminent threat of (b) something utterly unthinkable from a moral point of view. In such an emergency—a case of the “dirty hands” predicament that so often plagues political action (see Walzer 1973)—one may breach a basic and weighty moral principle such as civilian immunity, if that is the only hope of fending off the threat. So for more than three years, the RAF, later joined by the USAAF, deliberately devastated many German cities, killed about 600,000 civilians and seriously injured another 800,000 in an attempt to terrorize the German people into forcing their leadership to halt the war and surrender unconditionally. By early 1943 it was clear that Germany was not going to win the war, and all subsequent terror bombing lacked moral justification. But in its first year, in Walzer's view, the terror bombing of Germany was morally justified as a response to the supreme emergency Britain was facing.  Walzer then expands the notion of supreme emergency to apply to a single political community facing the threat of extermination or enslavement, and eventually to a single political community whose “survival and freedom” are at stake. For “the survival and freedom of political communities—whose members share a way of life, developed by their ancestors, to be passed on to their children—are the highest values of international society” (Walzer 2000: 254).
  Here we have two different conceptions of supreme emergency. The threat is imminent in both, but the nature of the threat differs: it is one thing to suffer the fate the Nazis had in store for peoples they considered racially inferior, and another to have one's polity dismantled. By moving back and forth between these two types of supreme emergency under the ambiguous heading of threat to “the survival and freedom of a political community”, Walzer seeks to extend to the latter the moral response that might be appropriate to the former. Yet whereas genocide, expulsion, or enslavement of an entire people might be thought a moral disaster that may be fended off by any means, its loss of political independence is, at most, a political disaster. If a polity to be dismantled lacks moral legitimacy, its demise may well be a moral improvement. But even if a polity does have moral legitimacy, a threat to its “survival and freedom” falls short of “an ultimate threat to everything decent in our lives”. If so, its military cannot be justified in waging war on enemy civilians in order to defend it.
  There is another, less permissive position constructed along similar lines, but based on a more austere view of what counts as a moral disaster that might justify resort to terrorism. Contrary to what many fighters against social or economic oppression, colonial rule, or foreign occupation believe, evils of such magnitude that they can justify indiscriminate killing and maiming of innocent people are extremely rare. Not every case of oppression, foreign rule, or occupation, however morally indefensible, amounts to a moral disaster in the relevant sense. Nor does every imminent threat to “the survival and freedom of a political community” qualify, contrary to what Walzer has argued. However, if an entire people is subjected to extermination, or to an attempt at “ethnically cleansing” it from its land, then it is facing a true moral disaster and may properly consider terrorism as a method of struggle against such a fate. In view of their enormity and finality, extermination and “ethnic cleansing” of an entire people constitute a category apart. To be sure, resorting to terrorism in such a case will be morally justified only if there are very good grounds for believing that terrorism will succeed where nothing else will: in preventing imminent extermination or “ethnic cleansing”, or stopping it if it is already under way. Cases where both conditions are met will be extremely rare. Indeed, history may not offer a single example. But that does not mean that that no act or campaign of terrorism could ever satisfy these conditions and thus turn out to be justified. Accordingly, terrorism is almost absolutely wrong (Primoratz 2013: chapter 6).
  Both the “supreme emergency” and the “moral disaster” view will justify a resort to terrorism only when that is the only way to deal with the emergency, or to prevent the disaster, respectively. Just how certain must we be that terrorism will indeed achieve the goal, while no other method will? One might argue that when in extremis, we cannot apply stringent epistemic standards in deciding how to cope—indeed, if we cannot really know what will work, we must take our chances with what might. This is Walzer's view: in such a predicament, we must “wager” the crime of terrorism against the evil that is otherwise in store for us. “There is no option; the risk otherwise is too great” (Walzer 2000: 259–260). It may be objected that this position highlights the enormity of the threat, while failing to give due weight to the enormity of the means proposed for fending off the  threat—the enormity of terrorism, of deliberately killing and maiming innocent people. When that is taken into account, the conclusion may rather be that even in extremis, if terrorism is to be justified, the reasons for believing that it will work and that nothing else will must be very strong indeed.
  Some hold that terrorism is absolutely wrong. This position, too, comes in different versions. Some philosophers work with a wide definition of terrorism, and argue that under certain circumstances “selective” terrorism that targets only those seriously implicated in the wrongs at issue may be justified (Corlett 2003, Young 2004). This seems to suggest that terrorism which is not selective in this way—that is, terrorism in the narrow sense—is never justified. Yet this does not follow: there is still room for arguing that terrorism of the latter type can be justified by further considerations, such as those of “supreme emergency” or “moral disaster”.
  Per Bauhn does not leave it at that. He attempts to show that terrorism that targets non-combatants or common citizens can never be justified by deploying a slightly amended version of Alan Gewirth's ethical theory. Freedom and safety are fundamental prerequisites of action and therefore must be accorded paramount weight. The need to protect them generates a range of rights; the right pertinent here is “an absolute right not to be made the intended victims of a homicidal project” all innocent persons have (Gewirth 1981: 16). When the absolute status of this right is challenged by invoking supreme emergency or moral disaster, Bauhn argues that there is a moral difference between what we are positively and directly causally responsible for, and what we are causally responsible for only indirectly, by failing to prevent other persons from intentionally bringing it about. We are morally responsible for the former, but (except in certain special circumstances) not for the latter. If we refuse to resort to terrorism in order not to target innocent persons, and thus fail to prevent some other persons from perpetrating atrocities, it is only the perpetrators who will be morally responsible for those atrocities. Therefore we must refuse (Bauhn 1989: chapter 5).
  Stephen Nathanson seeks to ground absolute immunity of civilians or common citizens and absolute prohibition of terrorism it entails in a rule-consequentialist ethical theory (Nathanson 2010: 191–208). Adopting civilian immunity, rather than adopting any other rule regulating the matter or having no rule at all, is the best way to reduce the killing and destruction in armed conflict. Moreover, the best consequences will be achieved by adopting it as an absolute rule, rather than as a rule allowing for exceptions in supreme emergencies. The idea of supreme emergency is vague. The criteria for proffering supreme emergency exemptions are liable to be applied in arbitrary and subjective ways. Finally, there is the slippery slope argument: “permitting [departures from the rule of civilian immunity, including terrorism] even under the direst circumstances will lower the bar for justifying such acts ... broadcast the message that such behavior may sometimes be justified and ... thus lend its weight to increasing the use of such methods” (Nathanson 2010: 207).
   However, one can adopt rule-consequentialism as one's ethical theory and yet view the immunity of civilians or common citizens and the attendant prohibition of terrorism as very stringent, but not absolute moral rules. Thus Richard B. Brandt and Brad Hooker do not view this immunity as absolute. They argue that a set of moral rules selected because of the good consequences of their adoption should include a rule that allows and indeed requires one to prevent disaster even if that means breaking some other moral rule. Even such a stringent moral rule as the prohibition of deliberate use of violence against innocent people may be overridden, if the disaster that cannot be prevented in any other way is grave enough. (See Brandt 1992: 87–88, 150–51, 156–57; Hooker 2000: 98–99, 127–36). There is thus some convergence at the level of practical conclusions between their understanding of the immunity of civilians or common citizens and the “moral disaster” position outlined above (2.3.2).
  Thanks to Andrew Alexandra, Tony Coady, and Thomas Pogge for helpful comments on a draft of this article.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 





Retourne les textes qui contiennent :
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste », « éditocrate », « éditorialiser », « éditorial ».... (« *rialiste » ne retournera rien: l'astérisque * doit être terminale.)
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » mais PAS « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe » ou bien « éditorialiste » ET « Barbier » mais présente en premier les textes qui contiennent « éditorialiste » ET « écharpe ».
Retourne les textes qui contiennent exactement la séquence de mots « éditorialiste écharpe ».

Accueil

    







    

 
    > Critiques
    
    
         > (...)
        > Le groupe Le Monde

Alain Minc n’est plus président de la Société des lecteurs du Monde... mais reste président du Conseil de surveillance.
A l’occasion de la constitution officielle, le 29 décembre 2003, du groupe La Vie-Le Monde, né de l’absorption des Publications de La Vie catholique (PVC) par le groupe Le Monde, Alain Minc, président de la Société des lecteurs du Monde, est remplacé par Marcel Desvergne (professeur des écoles, fondateur de l’université d’été de la communication de Hourtin et auparavant vice-président de la Société des lecteurs). 
L’information, dévoilée par La Correspondance de la presse le 26 décembre, a été publiée le 31 décembre par Le Monde en deux phrases sybillines à la fin d’un long article d’autopromotion : " Naissance d’un nouveau groupe de presse indépendant ", qui précise qu’Alain Minc, " après avoir présidé la Société des lecteurs du Monde pendant plus de dix-huit ans (...) a décidé de passer la main ".
Il semble qu’Alain Minc reste néanmoins président du Conseil de surveillance. Par quel " biais représentatif " ? Ce " tour de passe-passe " en laisse perplexe plus d’un, tel Alain Rollat, ancien pilier du journal et ex-" bras droit " de Jean-Marie Colombani [1] (lire La face cachottière du Monde : Alain Rollat écrit à ses (anciens ?) amis).

[1] Lire Les coulisses de la conquête du Monde.
Toutes les brèves
Toutes les vidéos
Tous les communiqués
Les Nouveaux Chiens de garde
« Au nom de la démocratie, votez bien ! » Retour sur le traitement médiatique des élections présidentielles de 2002 et 2017, par Mathias Reymond
Médiacritique(s) n°31
L’Opinion, ça se travaille...
Acrimed, maison fondée en 1996 par Henri Maler et Compagnie

Annuaire des auteurs publiés sur Acrimed
Informations • Contact • Agenda • RSS
Mentions légales • Plan du site • Administration
Design : Arnaud Dénielou • Webmaster : Yanic Gornet
Site motorisé avec SPIP • Optimisé pour Mozilla Firefox • Hébergeur associatif 

You do not have permission to access this document.
That's what you can do


* Required Fields

Forgot Your Password?

As part of your membership, you will receive email notifications about our deals. You may unsubscribe at any time.
You will recieve a confirmation email shortly.
We look forward to helping you find the perfect floor!
Back to login page
Please enter your email address below. You will receive a link to reset your password.
An e-mail with your new password has been sent to %email%		

TERMS OF SERVICES | Close it
 Close it

JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
                    You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.                

You have no items in your shopping cart.
SKU: LWF-RE-HSB10BS5
 In stock
Use spaces to separate tags. Use single quotes (') for phrases.

                        All rights reserved © 2019 Hardwood Bargains 

Customer Support |
                        Return Policy |
                        Privacy Policy | 
                        Terms of Service |
                        Shipping Policy

1340 Airport Commerce Dr. #425 Austin, TX 78741


Customer Support |
                        Return Policy |
                        Privacy Policy | 
                        Terms of Service |
                        Shipping Policy



Mortgage Fraud Archives

																			Week Ending June 22, 2012



AMC directory
ARM indexes
mortgage company directory
mortgage regulations
net branch directory
pricing engine directory
wholesale lender directory

More Mortgage News Resources (MortgageDaily.com full site map):
appraisal news
bank news
biggest lenders
commercial mortgage news
corporate mortgage news
credit news
FHA news
financial regulation news
foreclosure news
free mortgage news
GSE news
jumbo mortgage news
interest rates
loan modification news
loan officer compensation rule
loan originator compensation rule
MBS
mortgage-backed securities
mortgage books
mortgage brokers
mortgage compliance
mortgage conferences
mortgage directories
mortgage education
mortgage employment
mortgage employment index
mortgage executives
mortgage fraud
mortgage fraud blog
Mortgage Fraud Index
Mortgage Graveyard
mortgage insurance news
mortgage lawsuits
mortgage leads
mortgage lender ranking
mortgage licenses
mortgage litigation
Mortgage Litigation Index
Mortgage Market Index
mortgage mergers
mortgage news
mortgage politics
mortgage press releases
mortgage production
mortgage public relations
mortgage rates
mortgage servicing
mortgage statistics
mortgage technology
mortgage video
mortgage Webinars
net branch
net branch directory
nonprime news
origination news
originator tools
sales blog
reverse mortgage news
secondary marketing
servicing news
subprime news
wholesale lenders
wireless mortgage news


     I think we all have some room to improve our popcorn consumption. When eaten responsibly, it has many health benefits: a surprisingly high concentration of antioxidants, fiber, whole grain heartiness, plus it’s low in calories. But if you go for the microwaveable movie popcorn, or sticky kettle corn, you’re filling your body with things less than good for you: trans fats, high fructose corn syrup, artificial flavors, funny chemicals from the microwave bag, and coloring. Coloring? It’s so much better for your body and taste buds to make your own popcorn. It’s not as hard as it sounds! I took some time to answer my own questions about the easiest ways to make popcorn, and what to do with it after. Here’s some inspiration for popping, seasoning, and snacking your way through your Netflix queue.Can you really use a brown paper bag to make popcorn?
Short answer: Yes!Long answer: You sure could, but I don’t think it’s the easiest way. It’s definitely not the neatest! Here’s a recipe from Serious Eats1/2 cup popcorn kernels1/2 teaspoon oilPinch of saltPut everything in a small bowl to get all the kernels covered in oil. Place in a brown paper bag, then fold over well enough so it doesn’t open in the microwave. Place in microwave on high for 2 minutes, or until there are two seconds between pops. 
I folded the bag like this, and it stayed very sealed in the microwave. Now you’ve got your popcorn in a bag. Hopefully the bottom didn’t burn like mine did. You can probably practice this method until you’ve got it down to no burning and minimal unpopped kernels, but there’s also another way, which we’ll get to.What is nutritional yeast, and why should I put it on my popcorn?
Short answer: A cheesy topping to liven up the party.Long answer: Technically, yes, nutritional yeast is a yeast of sorts, except it won’t make your bread rise. It’s full of amino acids and potassium, and has something of a cheesy taste to it. My friends introduced this combination to me, and a lot of people do it, but it’s a taste I’m still acquiring. Try it as a cheese substitute and see what you think. I’m pretty sure you can find it by the spices in your grocery store.Can I make dessert popcorn myself, too?
Short answer: Yes, and it tastes darn good.Long answer: Just microwave some dark chocolate, throw in a touch of butter if you want, drizzle it over your bowl of popcorn, toss that bowl of popcorn, lay the popcorn out flat onto parchment paper, and throw in the fridge for a bit so the chocolate can harden up. If you want, you can wait for it to get to room temperature when you take it out, or you can eat up! Try drizzling some peanut butter in there if you want. Dessert-y, but not overwhelmingly sweet or messy! Still airy and awesome.What’s the best way to make popcorn?Short answer: Over the stove. Long answer: Grab a pot, cover the bottom with oil (vegetable oil, olive oil, even coconut oil). Let that heat up a bit. Add some salt – and some sugar if you want to go the kettle route – and the popcorn kernels; just enough to cover the bottom of the pot, or less (or more if you trust your popcorning instincts). Set the heat to high, and wait for the kernels to pop, constantly moving the pot over the heat to avoid burning, and allow the unpopped kernels to fall to the bottom. Remove from heat when two seconds separate the popping. There will probably be some stray pops anyway. Once you’ve transferred the popcorn to a bowl, you can add more salt, sugar, butter, or any other seasoning you want. Get creative! If you want to add butter, just melt some in the pot you just finished using.This method yields as much as you want, and has a great crisp texture/fresh taste. In my opinion, better than the microwave method.
Making your own popcorn is really not as scary as it might seem. And if that’s not reason enough, buying popcorn kernels instead of the microwaveable stuff is WAY cheaper. Impress your friends at your next party with your own snack creation. They will probably be inspired to make their own.Happy popping!Bonus:What do I do with leftover popcorn?Answer: Fold them into your cookies!
There was an error retrieving images from Instagram. An attempt will be remade in a few minutes.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.







 
		                Follow                    

Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, Lt Col Prasad Purohit and six others accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast will stand trial on stringent terror charges, a special NIA court today ruled in the politically-sensitive case that had raised speculation of saffron militancy. The ruling left the National Investigation Agency red faced which had given clean chit to Sadhvi Pragya.
Rejecting the pleas of the accused for discharge from the case, a special NIA court, however, dropped some sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against as well as Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against the accused, which is punishable by up to life in prison.
Significantly, the court dismissed NIA’s contention that there was no evidence against Sadhvi Pragya, saying it was difficult to accept the claim given that her motorcycle was used in the blast. “There is evidence to suggest that the accused number one (Thakur) had knowledge about involvement of her motorcycle,” the court said in its ruling on the nine-year-old case that had raised worries of Hindu militancy gaining a foothold as a reaction to Islamic extremism.
Sadhvi Pragya “had also expressed dissatisfaction about causing less casualties in the blast. Hence it is difficult to accept submissions on behalf of the NIA and the accused number one that she had no concern with the present crime,” it said. Special judge S D Tekale, who was hearing the pleas filed by seven of the 13 accused and the NIA’s application seeking framing of charges, said that charges will be framed against Thakur, Purohit, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Major (retd) Ramesh Upadhyay, Sameer Kulkarni, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Ajay Rahirkar.
The accused will face trial now under sections 16 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (conspiring for and committing/organising a terror act) and under the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy, murder, attempt to murder and causing hurt besides charges under the Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act.
The charges are punishable by various prison terms up to life, and death for murder. The NIA, while filing a charge sheet in the case last year, gave a clean chit to Sadhvi Pragya and three others — Shyam Sahu, Praveen Takalki, Shivnarayan Kalsangra — saying it found no evidence against them and they should be discharged from the case.
Today, the court absolved only Sahu, Kalsangra and Takalki from all the charges leaving Thakur to face trial. Two others, Jagdish Mhatre and Rakesh Dhawde, will face trial only under the Arms Act “before concerned courts”, the NIA court said.
The NIA had claimed in its charge sheet that there was no evidence of Thakur ever being part of conspiracy meetings, and though the motorcycle used in the blast once belonged to her, she had sold it much before the blast and had no knowledge of the conspiracy.
The judge, however, also noted that statements of some witnesses supported the charge that Thakur and Purohit had participated in some of the conspiracy meetings in Faridabad and Bhopal.
Six persons were killed when an improvised explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off at Malegaon, a town with sizable Muslim population in north Maharashtra’s Nashik district, on September 29, 2008, while 101 persons were injured.
The Anti-Terrorism Squad of the Maharashtra police, which probed the case initially, charged Thakur, Purohit, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Ramesh Upadhyay, Sudhakar Chaturvedi, Jagdish Mhatre, Rakesh Dhawade, Ajay Rahirkar, Samir Kulkarni, Shyam Sahu, Shivnarayan Kalsangra, Pravin Mutalik and Ramchandra Kalsangra.
According to the ATS, it was Ramchandra Kalsangra who planted the bomb, and who is still absconding. Thakur gave her motorbike to Kalsangra to plant the bomb, the ATS said.
Thakur filed a discharge plea after the Bombay High Court granted her bail in April. The NIA didn’t oppose her bail application. Purohit is also on bail.
The court also said the UAPA sections 17, 20 and 23 have been dropped against all accused. These sections relate to raising funds for a terrorist organisation, being part of a terrorist organisation and aiding someone who is part of a terrorist organisation.
This part of the ruling gives relief to saffron outfit Abhinav Bharat, which was accused by Mumbai ATS of providing arms training to right-wing activists. The ATS also says Purhoit was linked to Abhinav Bharat.
Get live Stock Prices from BSE and NSE and latest NAV, portfolio of Mutual Funds, calculate your tax by Income Tax Calculator, know market’s Top Gainers, Top Losers & Best Equity Funds. Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.
 

Die Therapeutische Frauenmassage ist eine sanfte und natürliche Behandlungsform und kann eine Frau in allen Lebensabschnitten unterstützen. Das Konzept vereint perfekte Elemente der Lymphdrainage, Reflexzonenarbeit, Akupressur mit dem Meridiansystem, Entspannung und Entgiftung. Durch die sanften Massagegriffe wird der weibliche Zyklus reguliert und der Hormonhaushalt harmonisiert, wodurch auch auf der emotionalen Ebene für Entspannung und Ausgeglichenheit gesorgt wird.
 
 
Die Stephenson Technik des Creativ Healing folgt den vier Grundprinzipien:
 
1. Der Körper wird auf eine gleichmässige Temperatur gebracht.
 
2. Durch wiederkehrende Massage-Handgriffe wird der Lymphfluss angeregt und so die Stoffwechselschlacken ausgeleitet.
 
3. Durch leichte, kreisende Bewegungen werden Kongestionen gelöst
 
4. An die 3 ersten Prinzipien schliesst sich das 4. Prinzip an, das sanft aber konsequent Gewebe und Strukturen reponiert und ausrichtet.
 
Die sanfte, aber dennoch effektive Massage wird im Sitzen und in Rückenlage durchgeführt und dauert ca. 60-70 min. Massiert werden hauptsächlich Bauch und Rücken, der Intimbereich wird nicht massiert.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wichtiger Hinweis
Bitte beachten Sie, dass die Therapeutische Frauen-Massage keine Diagnose oder Behandlung durch Ihren Arzt ersetzt.
 
 
 
Claudia Erni - Kosmetologie & Ernährung, Fachstrasse 73b, 8942 Oberrieden & Praxisgemeinschaft, Platz 10, 9100 Herisau, T +41 44 720 47 27, M +41 79 749 29 18 

El autor es PHILIP GOSSE escribió un interesante libro titulado Los piratas del oeste, los piratas de oriente : historia de la pirateria.
El libro de la publicó la editorial No data, y en este momento por el libro de Los piratas del oeste, los piratas de oriente : historia de la pirateria PDF ISBN (mkt0002722156) es necesario pagar 15.00 euros por copia.
Sin embargo, en nuestro sitio, Le ofrecemos descargar el libro Los piratas del oeste, los piratas de oriente : historia de la pirateria EPUB y otros formatos totalmente gratis para leer en el ordenador u otros dispositivos electrónicos.
Con nosotros usted puede encontrar otros libros del autor PHILIP GOSSE, que te pueden gustar, igual que el libro de Los piratas del oeste, los piratas de oriente : historia de la pirateria EPUB.
Únete a nuestra comunidad y recibe gratis el libro de Los piratas del oeste, los piratas de oriente : historia de la pirateria EPUB y otros, no menos interesantes de la edición.
            
La idea es interesante, pero hay deficiencias en la calidad.
 Like  Reply
Un libro que dejará después de leer un montón de emociones
 Like  Reply
No es impresionante
 Like  Reply
El libro merece el título de best-seller!
 Like  Reply
Un libro ordinario.
 Like  Reply
Descargue, lea libros electrónicos en línea gratis
Utilizing the safest and most effective products, we treat and clean draperies and upholstered furniture using PH balanced products and commercial-grade extractors. Our technicians are able to leave all types of fabric surfaces clean and fresh with a short dry time.
Our application of stain protection ensures your clean and fresh look, smell, and feel are long-lasting.
We provide fabrics, drapery, and upholstered furniture cleaning and protection services for both commercial customers and residential customers.
How Do We Do It? What make our cleaning superior?
First we deep vacuum fabrics and surfaces using our powerful commercial grade truck mounted cleaning system. Once all the dust and dry soils are removed, we pre-treat with our signature peroxide based spray that is safe for all fabrics and surfaces. This signature product breaks up the dirty and brings it to the surface where we can finally clean it away. Because of the peroxide base, it brightens fabrics without bleaching and also kills dust mites, molds, bacteria, and pet dander.
Once your drapes and furniture are clean and free from stains and bacteria, they smell fresh and look bright.
We ALWAYS recommend protecting your fabrics while they are in their best condition.
By protecting your hanging drapes and furniture fabrics, you increase the life of your investments while enjoying them in their best condition. It’s always good to keep your fabrics and furniture cleaner longer.
Protecting your furniture with our clear and scent-free signature stain protection provides you more time to clean up spills and accidents before a stain sets in. We get rave reviews about our stain protection applications, which makes most spills come up and out by gently blotting to absorb with a paper towel and water!
Our technicians are happy to provide you with the details necessary to get the most out of your stain protection applications.
Our teams are extremely experienced, knowledgeable, helpful, reliable, trustworthy, and thoughtful in their processes. We have experience and credibility with insurers. Our customer first attitude is the cherry on top as we provide the services that you need.
Our water restoration teams are IIRCR trained and certified. Keeping our team up to date with the latest training and best practices ensures jobs completed correctly, professionally, and completely.
We maintain the proper licenses, insurance, continuing education, and customer satisfaction ratings to be included on the largest insurance company referral lists, yet we are locally family owned and operated for the personal care and commitment you need during a tragedy. We have worked with AND ARE APPROVED WITH every major insurer and continue to put our customers first. You choose us, and we work with the insurance company FOR YOU.
Our teams and technicians have worked in every type of personal residence; from apartments to mansions and also for every major hotel chain and many commercial businesses in Central Florida. We have great references from consistently providing professional results. Choose a company that has experience, is trustworthy in your home, and who knows how to get the job done right.
Please take the time to read our reviews. We take pride in our work and helping families and businesses get back to their pre-loss condition. When things go wrong, you need help that will get the job done correctly. When you see the Clean N Dry trucks show up, you know you’ll get great service and excellent results.
From our good standing with the Better Business Bureau and every major insurer in the U.S. to our stellar customer reviews and references, you know you’re in good hands and can have confidence in good outcomes when you work with CLEAN N DRY.

520 CLIFTON ST., STE 9Orlando, FL 32808WE ANSWER 24/7 EMERGENCIES
Phone: CALL (407) 216-8000
Web: 
											www.orlando.getcleananddry.com									



Criminal Organizations, Euro-Americans, hate crimes

The SPLC a well-known Jewish run terrorist group has buried crimes against Whites in their “hate crime” report. This is because the SPLC is an organization dedicated to anti-White hatred as part of their agenda to push Jewish supremacy. Shown above is the vile Jew Dick Cohen who leads this disgusting organization.
From NY Post:
At least 2,000 educators around the country reported racist slurs and other derogatory language leveled against white students in the first days after Donald Trump was elected president. But the group that surveyed the teachers didn’t publish the results in its report on Trump-related “hate crimes.”
The Southern Poverty Law Center partnered with the American Federation of Teachers, which formally endorsed Hillary Clinton, to circulate the questionnaire among its 1.6 million mostly Democratic members. The survey was sent out to K-12 teachers and administrators who subscribe to its “Teaching Tolerance” newsletter.
The SPLC’s widely cited report — “The Trump Effect: The Impact of the 2016 Presidential Election on Our Nation’s Schools” — reported that 40 percent of the more than 10,000 educators who responded to the survey “have heard derogatory language directed at students of color, Muslims, immigrants and people based on gender or sexual orientation.”
The takeaway was that Trump-supporting white kids have been harassing minorities at the nation’s schools. And SPLC’s schools report, along with a broader report on alleged Trump-inspired hate crimes — “Ten Days After: Harassment and Intimidation in the Aftermath of the Election” — sparked breathless coverage in the New York Times, Washington Post and other major media.
Based on this, I would like to once again call for the government to shut down the SPLC for terrorist activities. Hate filled Jewish supremacist operations like the SPLC must not be allowed to operate in America.
Source: Infostormer.Com | Jewish SPLC Terrorists Did Not Include Crimes Against Whites In “Hate Crime” Report

			I object to and oppose the nefarious and devious force that schemes to enslave the world.			
				View all posts by oppositionx			

Fearless Freedom Press supports the essential human right of free speech, a fundamental building block of free society, affirmed by the U.S. Bill of Rights in 1791 and by the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights in 1948.
For more on this visit this site's About page.
Enter your email address to follow Fearless Freedom Press and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 272 other followers







 
		                Follow                    

Read Francis Parker Yockey’s, Imperium:
Every Man and Woman of the West will find in this brilliant work a history of the West – how and why we find Ourselves in the harrowing predicament of Our time. The unvarnished truth that dispels of the fallacies and distortions which have crippled the West into its deadly occupation by alien forces both inside and out. (Click on Image to access pdf)



 Barnes Review 
Institute For Historical Review
The Occidental Observer
Justice For Germans
Lies Your Teacher Told You
Washington Report On Middle East Affairs
Council For The National Interest
American Free Press
RadicalPress.com (Archived Site)
VeteransToday
Information Clearing House
If Americans Knew
Zündelsite
David Irving's Focal Point Site
Inconvenient History
NETUREI KARTA Intl - Jews United Against Zionism
Alfred Lillienthal
Noontide Press
USS Liberty Memorial

Ending White Slavery:
There is perhaps no publication in print that better describes the reality facing the White Race today than Matthew Hale’s, Ending White Slavery. Hale brilliantly elucidates the concepts that have created the state of mental enslavement which has allowed the other races to run roughshod over the natural rights of the White Race. Concepts that have, in turn, led the Race to this dangerous stage of White genocide.
For those interested in reading the complete text, which includes Matthew Hale’s clear-minded prescription for turning the tide, Fearless Freedom Press offers a pdf version for download. (Click on Image to access pdf)


To read the first chapter and further info regarding Matt Hale click here.
Read Michael Collins Piper's Final Judgment: The Missing Link in the JFK Assassination Conspiracy - this is the damning indictment of Jewish and Israeli elements' role in the masterminding of the plot to murder the United States' 35th President.



© 2019 Fearless Freedom Press

Create a website or blog at WordPress.com


Miles de personas en peligro de perder ciudadanía
 Enlace del video 
 Insertar Vínculo 
Replay
Más Videos (1 of 9)
El Servicio de Inmigración estudia los casos de personas naturalizadas que hayan mentido para convertirse en ciudadanos.
LOS ÁNGELES - Más de 2,500 procesos de naturalización realizados en el país se hallan en la mira del Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración (USCIS) de Estados Unidos por posibles casos de fraude durante el trámite, reveló el lunes esta agencia.
Claire Nicholson, vocera de USCIS, confirmó a Efe que de esa cifra por lo menos un centenar cuenta con una sospecha razonable y ya ha sido remitido al Departamento de Justicia (DOJ) para que se evalúe tomar alguna acción legal en contra de los inmigrantes, incluida el despojarlos de la ciudadanía estadounidense.
En junio pasado, la Administración del presidente Donald Trump formó dentro de USCIS un grupo especializado de investigadores y abogados, con sede en Los Ángeles, para estudiar casos en los que pudo haber fraude en las solicitudes a nivel nacional.
Dan Renaud, director asociado de operaciones de esta agencia federal, dijo al periódico Los Angeles Times que evalúan casos en los que se han identificado que los inmigrantes usaron más de una identidad, a veces hasta tres.
Los esfuerzos de este equipo se enfocan en los registros de huellas dactilares recogidas desde el año 1990, las cuales no estaban en archivos digitales y por ende no podían ser comparadas con los más recientes.
Un cálculo del Departamento de Seguridad Interna (DHS) en 2011 advirtió que unos 315,000 inmigrantes con antecedentes podrían haber escapado a los radares de inspección de las autoridades de Inmigración.
Activistas y abogados creen que estos esfuerzos de la actual Administración son para atemorizar a la comunidad inmigrante.
Fernando Romo, abogado de inmigración y asesor de la Asociación de Salvadoreños de Los Ángeles (ASOSAL), advirtió que las autoridades federales se solían enfocar en perseguir a inmigrantes que hubieran violado los derechos humanos o personas vinculadas con crímenes de lesa humanidad.
"Lo preocupante es que ahora estarían enfocándose en cualquier omisión, incluso en casos de personas que llevan décadas siendo ciudadanos", agrega el abogado, quien no obstante resalta que el proceso de desnaturalización se debe realizar frente a un juez federal.
Incluso, en abril pasado, tras una votación unánime, el Tribunal Supremo rechazó la intención del Gobierno de retirar la ciudadanía a una inmigrante de Serbia, Divna Maslenjak, que se convirtió en ciudadana en 2007 y encubrió los crímenes de guerra de su esposo en su aplicación de ciudadanía.
El Tribunal Supremo dijo al Gobierno que no pudo demostrar si esa mentira hubiera causado que los funcionarios de USCIS no concedieran la ciudadanía a la mujer.
Copyright © 2019 NBCUniversal. Derechos Reservados.  El uso de este sitio web significa que aceptas a la normativa de confidencialidad y las condiciones de servicio.
Committee chair says it is clear the current system is broken, and TUC boss says abuse is happening on ‘industrial scale’

Alexandra Topping


Sun 14 Jan 2018 19.01 EST


Last modified on Tue 6 Mar 2018 07.48 EST


The government must urgently strengthen laws around sexual harassment to stop abuse continuing on “an industrial scale”, according to a coalition of MPs, union leaders and women’s groups.
 Under increasing pressure to take meaningful action to tackle harassment after a deluge of scandals in Westminster and Hollywood, MPs are launching a formal inquiry into the subject. 
Evidence from police, women’s groups and legal experts could pave the way for a hardening of laws and lead Britain to follow the example of countries such as Belgium and Portugal in making street harassment illegal.
The inquiry will concentrate on whether current laws around sexual harassment in public places are sufficient, and the impact of harassment on victims and society. 
Maria Miller, chair of the Commons women and equalities select committee, which will lead the inquiry, told the Guardian it would push the government to disclose how it is dealing with sexual harassment, which is not currently central to its strategy on violence against women and girls.
“I think it’s clear that the current system is broken,” Miller said. “It’s all well and good to have strong laws when it comes to sexual harassment, but if we have a culture that has accepted it for decades as part of the price of being a woman then we have to change that culture [and] make sure our laws are the best they can be.”
According to a YouGov survey, 52% of women aged 18 to 24 say they have experienced unwanted sexual attention in public places, and 38% say they have experienced unwanted sexual touching. Reported sexual offences on trains and tubes have more than doubled in the past five years. Research from the TUC and the Everyday Sexism Project suggests half of all working women – and two-thirds of young women – have been sexually harassed at work.
Frances O’Grady, the TUC general secretary, said recent government policies had actively contributed to creating working conditions where abusers could thrive.
“It’s not just a case of them failing on this; they have made the situation worse,” O’Grady told the Guardian. “The government has removed protections from women and they have made it harder for women to get justice. It is about power and I don’t think women should be expected to solve this on their own.”
She pointed to the government’s decisions to introduce employment tribunal fees, scrap employers’ duty to protect workers from third-party harassment, and abolish an equality questionnaire. 
The government introduces employment tribunal fees of £1,200, causing the number of cases to drop. It is later forced into a reversal after the supreme court rules the fees are inconsistent with access to justice, following a legal challenge by the trade union Unison.
The government scraps a legal requirement for employers to protect their workers from abuse by third parties such as clients or customers.
The government abolishes an equality questionnaire that allowed sexual harassment claimants to ask questions about a potential claim before going to a tribunal. In a government consultation before the move, 80% of respondents opposed the proposal.
The Deregulation Act removes employment tribunals' powers to make recommendations for the benefit of the wider workforce following complaints.
The law had to be strengthened and damaging policies reversed, she said. “If the government was honest about their contribution to making this problem worse, maybe they would be in a position to think about how to put things right and ask what is going on in the world of work when we are seeing the abuse of women on an industrial scale.”
O’Grady accused the government of failing to tackle insecure work, which left workers more vulnerable to abuse. Research by ComRes for the BBC found workers on zero-hours contracts and in insecure work were more likely to receive abuse. 
Hospitality workers told the Guardian that employers regularly withheld shifts if complaints about sexual harassment were made about managers or clientele. One bar worker said there was no point moving elsewhere as abuse was likely to happen in every bar. “That’s why you put up with it,” she said. 
Charlotte Bence, a hospitality coordinator for Unite, said removing the duty to protect workers from third parties had “effectively allowed employers in the hospitality industry to wash their hands of the issue and given a free pass to bad customers to sexually harass workers”. She added: “Employers need to get a grip and put in place dignity at work policies. Workers can get the added protection of joining a union like Unite.”
Bence said government policies had also deliberately attempted to weaken trade union membership, which she argued gave workers “the best chance of preventing harassment in the first place”.
The women and equality committee’s inquiry is likely to consider evidence from Portugal and Belgium, where street harassment is illegal. “We are potentially a little way behind some of our neighbours in Europe in dealing with this problem in a way that gives women the confidence to report it,” said Miller. 
It is also likely to call on Nottinghamshire police, which last year took the decision to record misogynistic abuse as a hate crime.
Miller said “hard questions” needed to be asked about the widespread use of non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in workplace sexual harassment cases. “We have to turn the worm on this. Non-disclosure agreements have become incredibly prevalent in many employment situations in a way they were never designed to, with very few rules in place.”
Stella Creasy, the Labour MP for Walthamstow, said there was a desperate need for the government to face up to the problem and gather more data. “We are at a tipping-point moment where we can either retreat back into our comfort zone or we can say this is really bad for our economy and our society and we are going to end it. And that will require difficult conversations, some data and probably some legislation.” 
She called for the use of NDAs to be tracked and for sexual harassment complaints to be recorded in a similar manner to maternity discrimination claims.
Sam Smethers, chief executive of the Fawcett Society, which is expected to publish a wide-ranging review calling for a change in the law next week, said direct action was required. “I don’t think we will get there unless we look at the law. Warm words are never going to be enough,” she said. 
“We are only at the beginning of solving this problem, we are at the point of waking up to it as a society, but we are a long way from dealing with it.” 


		24/3/2018
	



		3 Comments
	

News from our own garden plus advice about permaculture, plants, growing food and sustainable gardening in Canberra.

February 2019

November 2018

May 2018

March 2018

January 2018

November 2017

August 2017

July 2017

June 2017

April 2017

November 2016

February 2016

June 2012



All

APC 14

Bush Tucker

Earth Works

Edible Weeds

Perennial Vegetables

Permaculture

Permaculturing Our Garden

Plant Harvests

Recipes From The Garden






		RSS Feed
	

Human Rights Watch (HRW) has urged the Kenyan authorities to expand genuine investigations to every case of extrajudicial killings, after four police officers were charged with the alleged killing of rights lawyer Willie Kimani, his client and taxi driver, in murder case that sparked outrage across the country.

A lawyer working with the International Justice Mission (IJM), Kimani had been representing Josephat Mwenda in a case stemming from 10 April 2015 – in an incident where an officer from Syokimau Administration Police (AP) Camp shot him during a traffic stop.
Initial reports suggested that AP officers, one of whom Mwenda was defending himself against in court that day, may have abducted them. Appearing before High Court Judge Jessie Lessit, four police officers were charged with the trio's murder on Monday (18 July).
"We are hoping that these investigations will actually lead to justice for the real perpetrators, and not be used to whitewash the whole process for the people who commit those crimes," Otsieno Namwaya, Africa researcher at HRW's Nairobi office, told IBTimes UK.
"What we have seen in the past is that when this kind of thing happens – especially if it goes high up [in the armed forces ranks] – lower-level officers are used as scapegoats and investigations fizzle out," he said, adding that after such condemnations are carried out, "the country moves on instead of addressing the root case of the problem".
The murders of Kimani, his client and taxi drivers prompted large protests in the Kenyan capital at the beginning of the month against the hundreds of murders blamed on police officers in Kenya and their apparent ability to act with impunity.
"What we hope should happen is that the investigations of Willie Kimani killings are expanded to all the other cases of extrajudicial killings and disappearances, which is a big problem right now in Kenya," the researcher said.
In the past six years, the number of extrajudicial killings involving Kenyan armed services runs into the high hundreds, according to 33 human rights organisations – including HRW – which published a joint statement following the disappearance of Kimani and his associates.
In February, President Uhuru Kenyatta accused the police of rampant corruption for decades, and ordered the leadership of East Africa's largest democracy's police to deal with graft.
Read more: Kenyan High Court hears details on torture and murder of rights lawyer Willie Kimani and associates
Publié le 13/10/2014
Modifié le 11/09/2018
Publié le 13/10/2014 - Modifié le 11/09/2018
Clones, prothèses augmentées, exosquelettes, opérations chirurgicales à distance, etc. : ce qui appartenait autrefois au domaine de la science-fiction entre aujourd'hui dans la réalité. La technologie a permis des avancées autrefois impossibles en médecine ou en chirurgie. Retrouvez en vidéo Bertin Nahum, fondateur de la société Medtech, lors de son allocution sur le sujet au TEDxCannes 2014.
!
Merci pour votre inscription.Heureux de vous compter parmi nos lecteurs !
Les auteurs de science-fiction ont imaginé un futur où l'Homme serait aidé, soigné voire « augmenté » par l'informatique et les technologies. Ce futur qui semblait bien loin il y a quelques années se rapproche à grands pas, par exemple dans le cas de la chirurgie cérébrale. La société Medtech développe et conçoit des robots chirurgicaux rendant les opérations du cerveau plus sûres, plus précises et surtout moins invasives. Pilotés par un chirurgien, ces robots permettent de traiter des pathologies comme la maladie de Parkinson ou encore l'épilepsie.
Intervenu lors du TEDxCannes le 26 avril 2014, Bertin Nahum dirige notamment l'entreprise Medtech. Il est classé quatrième entrepreneur high-tech le plus révolutionnaire du monde, derrière Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg et James Cameron. En partenariat avec Futura-Sciences, le TEDxCannes est l'occasion de réunir chaque année des intervenants aux profils variés, comme Jacques Rougerie ou encore Zhang Zhang.

            E-santé : le bouleversement de la médecine a commencé
        
be in with a chance to win a FREE month's supply of wine
Copyright © 2017. Decanting Club. All rights reserved.

Alex Anfruns
For two months, Nicaragua has been through a major political crisis, fueled by clashes between law enforcement and an insurgency. Humanitarian organizations report a terrifying record of nearly 200 deaths. This violence, compromising the attempts of political negotiations, makes it necessary to understand who has an interest in paralyzing this Central American country. What are the motivations of protesters and opposition forces? Is the Nicaraguan government the symbol of absolute tyranny?
It was a pension reform project that started the fire. To avoid privatizing social security as recommended by the IMF, the government wanted to increase contributions for both workers and employers. Faced with a public outcry, the government backtracked and withdrew its reform plan. But the protests continued without anyone being able to understand what was their objective. In order to stop the cycle of violence, government spokesmen called on the protesters to participate in peace commissions. They insisted on their willingness to listen to the various demands and to promote the expression of political opposition. To no avail. Calls for dialogue from the government have been shunned.
They were even perceived as a sign of weakness, galvanizing the young protesters of the M-19 movement. With no program, this movement simply calls for overthrowing the “dictatorship” accused of being at the origin of the “repression”. Moreover, the international media aligned themselves without reserve with these demonstrators, regarded as the quintessence of the civil society, in spite of their nihilism and extremism. But the attitude of the M-19 raises questions. By refusing any political solution and promoting violence, the movement offers an ideal motive for the proponents of “regime change” and “constructive chaos” already applied in countries like Libya, Iraq or Ukraine
On 14 June, the M-19 operation consisting of deploying “tranques” (barricades) in certain areas of the capital Managua, as well as in nearby cities such as Masaya or Granada, was supported by a “national strike” of 24 hours. This strike was convened by COSEP, the main employers’ organization. Yes, in Nicaragua, it is the bosses who call to strike! The world upside down? The fact remains that neither the majority of workers, nor the small and medium-sized enterprises followed suit. But it allowed an evaluation of the balance of power as well as maintaining the pressure until the next phase. On June 16, the day when the peace dialogue between the opposition and the government was to be revived, a new episode of extreme violence made the front pages of the international media.
The macabre fire of the Velasquez house
First, the facts. On June 16, a group of hooded people set fire to a building in Managua using Molotov cocktails, causing seven deaths, including a two-year-old child and a five-month-old baby. A mattress store occupied the ground floor of the building while the owner and his family lived on the first floor. Neighbors said they saw hoodlums throw their cocktails at the building, and said some shooters would have prevented the family from escaping. Accident as a possible cause was therefore immediately rejected.
But private media like Televisa or BBC immediately seized the case to blame the authorities for the crime. According to their information, paramilitaries on government payroll wanted to use the roof of the building to post snipers; the paramilitaries, having been denied access by the homeowner, would have locked him up in his residence with his family before setting it on fire. This is the same thesis defended by the Nicaraguan Center for Human Rights (CENIDH), which pointed out “their complicity with the national police”. For other governments, this argument would appear simplistic, implausible and irrational. Who would have defended the idea that the British government was behind the fire of the Grenfell tower for example? But in the case of Nicaragua, the complicity or even the responsibility of the government is put forth as a matter of fact.
To give credit to the story, the BBC used the testimony of the only survivor in the family: “Hooded people came with police officers and locked up nine people in a room on the second floor and burned us alive.” According to the same testimony, the offenders carried “mortars, weapons, and Molotov bombs”. We can only respect the bereavement of the survivor. But it cannot be dismissed that under shock, and calling for divine justice, she felt the need to find an immediate culprit. This is why it cannot be excluded that her testimony has been influenced in any way so as to channel her anger and to politically exploit it. In an effort to get closer to the truth, it is necessary to look for additional information and to cross-check them with other testimonies and documents.
The problem is that observers are facing a real war of images. Filmed from the balcony of the house burned, an amateur video was immediately relayed on social media. It aims at reinforcing the thesis of police forces and para-police organizations participation. Filmed by the eldest son of the family, Alfredo Pavon, one of the victims of the fire, this video is certainly interesting. But we see only a convoy of five police vans stopping near the house after a motorcycle chase, after which the police fires some warning shots and arrests a young biker. Hard to turn this into evidence. This document is nevertheless used to sow doubt, or even to point at the authorities as being responsible for the crime. Widely shared by the media in the aftermath of the crime, the video continues to be broadcast in a loop and feed hate comments…
However, these images have in fact been taken out of context: the recording was made on April 21, that is, at the very beginning of this crisis. What it reveals above all is that this precise area had been the scene of clashes between the two camps since the beginning of the crisis. This corresponds to information sent by Nicaraguan citizens, which indicates that the Carlos Marx district is controlled by the opposition. Indeed, it is hard to believe, as the opposition says, that police forces have surrounded the same neighborhood for two months, without being able to quell the protest movement until June 16, when they finally decided to use the roof of the Velasquez family to post snipers. And that’s not all. According to the same version, short of obtaining the family’s approval, the authorities acted brutally by setting the house on fire, without anticipating that it would cause a resurgence of tensions instead of calming them down.
Not really intimidated by the crime in the Velasquez house, four members of the M-19 were present on the scene the same day, to record a video where they accuse the government of “state terrorism” and call to support their movement. They take the opportunity to send a message to the negotiation table: “We are not going to remove the barricades, they are in our hands and those of the people, and we will not take them off. I want you to know: if the people do not unite, it will end up in new massacres like this one”. But have their accusations, carried by certain media and Internet users on social media, been the subject of a real inquiry gathering enough facts?
Retaliation against the right to work?
A journalist at TeleSur, Madelein Garcia reports a completely different version: the people responsible for the fire are “delinquents recruited by the opposition”, “hooded men who attacked with mortars and Molotov cocktails the family home, after reading in a media that snipers of the police were hiding there.” Garcia explains that according to a friend of the family, “the hooded men asked for mattresses, the owner refused and that’s when they burned the house for revenge.”
Moreover, a disturbing screen shot of the April 19 movement was relayed via social media, including several photos of the owner of the premises, the father Velasquez Pavon, accompanied by explicit threats against him. The document dates from 2 days before the fire, that is to say at the time of the strike organized by COSEP. The commentary indicates that he did not respect the strike directive, preferring to continue working. In the eyes of his attackers, that would have been enough to make him automatically suspicious of sympathy with the government. The M-19 would have then relayed the identity and address of one of the future victims, threatening to “disappear” these “infiltrated” Sandinistas who “refuse to strike by pretending to support the people”.
Since the release of this document, it appears that the text and photos have been removed from the account, the group administrators explaining that it could be a forgery. An explanation that did not convince everyone: some remember seeing these photos before the day of the fire, and point out that the area was under the control of the opposition, including through the “tranques” (barricades).
Who to believe? We only have amateur videos published by Velasquez Pavon on his Facebook account in recent months. He proudly presents his mattress making workshop and says he works tirelessly. Would the small business owner Velasquez Pavon have been the target of opposition or paramilitary forces? Two days after the employers’ strike, would there have been any reprisals against the right to work of the Nicaraguan people? The dead do not speak; it is difficult to answer these questions. But respect for the victims requires a real independent investigation, which is incompatible with political and media manipulation.
Who wants to eliminate the Sandinistas?
Without the same outrage from the media, other killings and attacks have clearly targeted citizens and buildings associated with Sandinismo.
On the same day that the Velasquez house was burned, a funeral home located a few meters from the house was also ransacked and set on fire.
Still near the scene of the incident, two men were spotted in the street dismantling the barricades of the opposition. They were shot dead on the spot. The killers sprinkled gasoline on one of the corpses and set it on fire. Before leaving, they put objects on the burned body to create a macabre scene. It was Francisco Aráuz Pineda, from a historical family of the Sandinista Revolution.
Here is a non-exhaustive timeline sequence of violent actions that took place in just three weeks:
The similarities with the crimes perpetrated in Venezuela by the anti-Chavista opposition a year ago suggest that this wave of violence is primarily motivated by a deep ideological hatred that goes beyond the framework of ordinary crime.
When the dead are brought back to life
To these brutal attacks that speak for themselves, we can add the confusion maintained by the protesters themselves with the complicity of the private media.
Other people also discovered the presence of their name or photo in a list of dead claimed by the protesters: Christomar Baltodano, Karla Sotelo, Marlon Joshua Martinez, Marlon Jose Davila, William Daniel Gonzalez … Much like in Venezuela in 2014, the public was intoxicated by a massive campaign of fake news via social media.
Observers on the “good side” of the barricade
If we want to broaden the perspective, short of exposing the long history, it is necessary to return to the chronology of the facts. On June 15, the Catholic Church’s peace dialogue had just resumed after the talks had been interrupted since May 23. The new agenda between the government and the opposition renewed the authorization granted to a list of international organizations to participate in observation missions in the country, in order to identify all murders and acts of violence as well as their leaders, with an integral plan of care for victims in order to achieve effective justice. They included observers from the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR), as well as the EU.
An organization dependent of the Organization of American States (aligned with Washington), the IACHR had already carried out a mission between May 17 and May 21. Then it continued to issue reports, the last of which coincided with the day of the strike. Its record attributed to the government of Daniel Ortega the central responsibility in this crisis, while recognizing the presence of armed groups with “homemade mortars filled with gunpowder” in the ranks of the demonstrators. The wording is not very eloquent: the reader of the release is unlikely to imagine the scenes of horror that these groups were responsible of.
On June 14, the Nicaraguan Foreign Ministry replied in a letter that the work of the IACHR had still not taken into account “evidence of atrocious crimes, cruel and degrading treatment, kidnapping and other acts of violence committed against the population and especially against public officials and persons known to be Sandinistas “. Given the biased stance it is accused of, the authorization to visit the premises that the Ortega government granted to the IACHR on June 26, must be considered as a concession in the framework of peace negotiations between the two parties. Especially since institutions like Amnesty International have clearly shown that they are on the other side of the barricade, turning a deaf ear to the testimonies that are not aligned with the dominant narrative.
Caution is therefore required. If we assume the hypothesis of a political motive behind the frightening crime of the Velasquez house, the arrival of the investigators of the IACHR could have constituted a special motivation, in order to attract the international public opinion’s attention. Be that as it may, it did not take long to happen.
First, on June 18 the Civic Alliance, the political opposition movement engaged in dialogue with the government, announced its withdrawal from the negotiation table and demanded the presence of external observers. The reactions were immediate, notably that of the representative of the OAS Luis Almagro and the IACHR… and finally the unavoidable press release of the spokesperson of the US Department of State Heather Nauert, condemning the ‘current violence sponsored by the government, including the attack on June 16 against the residence and trade of a family…”. Nauert recommended that the government should carry on according to the points on the peace agenda, including the planned visit of observers of the IACHR. Her conclusion is quite significant: the United States “takes note of the general appeal of Nicaraguans for new presidential elections” and “considers that the elections would be a constructive way forward”!
This statement contains a thinly veiled threat: it is an interference with the sovereignty of Nicaragua. It relies on a new balance of power, starting from the mid-June sequence – the strike and the peace agreement, undermined by the new violence of the weekend, which has had as a result the opposition leaving the negotiation table. Nauert therefore puts pressure on the Ortega government, which is now confronted on the one hand with increased street violence and lack of dialogue with the political opposition, and on the other hand with the arrival of the observation missions – who have probably already decided in advance the conclusion of their report.
Is “regime change” a thing of the past?
Unless one is uncontrollably naive, everyone will have noticed that the United States continues to regard Latin America as its backyard. For we cannot dismiss the role played in Nicaragua by a certain international activism, which is centered on the United States Congress, where the Nica Act was approved last November. Under the initiative of Ros-Lehtinen, a Cuban anti-Castro elected member of the Republican party, this law aims to stifle the Nicaraguan economy, blocking international loans. The reason? “Human rights violations, the regression of democracy in Nicaragua, and the dismantling of the free elections system in this country”.
When the United States presents itself as the defender of human rights and the champion of democracy in the world, it should be remembered that in recent years bodies dedicated to “promoting democracy”, such as USAID or the NED, showered opposition movements with dollars (support that the protesters do not hide). Simultaneously, Senator Marco Rubio proposed to use the Magnitsky Act as a weapon of financial sanctions against the Vice-President of the mixed enterprise Albanisa. What was Rubio’s aim? “Not only to support the desire for new elections as soon as possible to change the government, but also change the constitution, because a new government on the basis of corruption and dictatorship is more or less the same thing.” Helping to overthrow the government elected by the Nicaraguan people is not enough, so you have to write directly a new constitution in its place, to prevent these latinos from returning to bad habits!
All these mechanisms of destabilization correspond to the different phases of a real hybrid war. In the view of the neoconservative strategists, “constructive chaos” is far better than the loss of the areas of direct influence of yesteryear. If Nicaragua is again in the line of sight of US imperialism, the real reasons are mostly economic.
Nicaragua, theater of a long US strategic war
As early as 1825, the Federal Republic of Central America, a political entity stemming from the wars of independence, had commissioned a study on the creation of a canal on the Lake Nicaragua Canal route. It was a strategic project for the economic development and survival of the young republic. But following the creation of the Independent State of Nicaragua in 1838, the Central American Federation broke out, dividing it into six different political entities (Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica). What about the economic integration project in the region? It fell into oblivion.
For the United States, the break-up of Central America was therefore very advantageous from a strategic point of view. In 1846, the Colombian government signed with the United States the Mallarino-Bidlak Treaty, by which Colombia was to ensure free circulation in this region, where the United States planned to create an inter-oceanic canal. Following the vision of US Marine Corps Captain Alfred Thayer, the goal was to better control maritime trade. The new agreement offered US troops the pretext to intervene militarily 14 times, relying on the legal foundations of the treaty. Thus the United States played a decisive role in the separation of Colombia and the Department of Panama on November 3, 1903.
As a reminder, as early as 1823, the United States had issued a warning to the European powers who would be tempted to regain control over the young emerging republics. It was the famous Monroe Doctrine: “America for Americans”. Translation: The United States were keeping a “right of interference” on its southern neighbors. Well, in 1850 the United States signed a similar treaty with England, which since 1661 had established a protectorate over the coastal region of Mosquitia, allying itself with the indigenous Mosquito people against the Spaniards. The agreement between the two powers provided for the shared control of the coast and the circulation of goods in the future canal. But in 1860, Nicaragua signed another agreement with England, by which it formally renounced the protectorate. In its place, the Kingdom of Mosquitia was created, with a constitution based on English laws. In 1904, Mosquitia was finally incorporated in Nicaragua.
On December 6, 1904, facing the US Congress, President Theodore Roosevelt proclaimed the “Big Stick” doctrine, also known as the “Roosevelt Corollary.” This foreign policy was practiced in the period between 1898 and 1934 where, in order to protect its commercial interests, the United States occupied several Latin American countries, in what would become known as the “banana wars”. William Howard Taft, who had been appointed Secretary of War in the Roosevelt administration, did not hesitate to use force in several countries. Significantly, the same Taft was responsible for overseeing the construction of the Panama Canal, which was finally inaugurated in 1914.
It must be remembered that the initial project for the construction of the Panama Canal was first granted by Colombia to France thanks to the signing of the Salgar-Wyse agreement. The works, led by Ferdinand de Lesseps, the engineer responsible for the Suez Canal in Egypt, began in 1878 and lasted ten years, but was abandoned in 1888. The abandonment of the project by the French led to the United States resuming the idea of the canal and commissioned a study of the American Congress at the Walker Commission. Finally, the choice was on Nicaragua and a construction treaty was signed. But this country opposed the granting of a route planned by the United States, and envisaged the possibility of granting it to Germany. In retaliation, in August 1912, the United States sent troops to Nicaragua. They would only return home after 21 years of occupation, turning the country into some sort of protectorate. The invasion served the purpose of preventing another country from building a canal in the area. In 1916, the newly elected Adolfo Diaz government, with the kind support of the US Marines, signed with the United States the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty, through which that country obtained the concession for the canal for a period of 99 years and the authorization to install a naval base.
The success of the Panama Canal and the long invasion of Nicaragua by the United States threw the other canal project into the dustbin of history. But not forever. Daniel Ortega, the historical leader of the Sandinista Revolution who was president of Nicaragua in the 1980s and re-elected in 2006, brought back the project. In 2013, the National Assembly approved a law granting the concession of the new Transoceanic Canal to the private Chinese company HKND. If it saw the light of day, it would be three times the size of the Panama Canal. In other words, there would be a serious competition issue.
Translated from French by Tamarvlad
Enter your email address to follow Internationalist 360° and receive notifications of new content by email.







 
		                SUBSCRIBE                    

Your browser is no longer supported. For the best experience of this website, please upgrade to a newer version or another browser.
Your browser appears to have cookies disabled. For the best experience of this website, please enable cookies in your browser 
We'll assume we have your consent to use cookies, for example so you won't need to log in each time you visit our site.Learn more
19 April 2019 11:00 am
18 April 2019 2:58 pm
18 April 2019 2:22 pm
18 April 2019 2:13 pm
In the midst of several high-profile company voluntary arrangements (CVAs), retailers are fighting to prove that evolution is the key to survival – particularly when it comes to the high street.
Entries are now open for the Drapers Digital Awards - recognising the best of the best in ecommerce across the fashion industry in the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
 Find out more and enter 
18 April 2019 2:22 pm
18 April 2019 8:57 am
12 April 2019 6:14 am
10 April 2019 1:51 pm
Gym King’s Jay Parker has built a thriving athleisure brand in a competitive market before his 30th birthday. He talks to Drapers about keeping the business fighting fit and cracking the US.
Drapers Footwear Awards 19 will recognise and celebrate the footwear's very best from across the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
                                                    We have 18 exciting categories up for contest, including International Footwear Business of the Year and Best Sustainable Initiative of the Year.
                                                    
Find out more and enter 
9 April 2019 11:04 am
4 April 2019 11:10 am
19 March 2019 2:15 pm
13 March 2019 10:18 am
With her womenswear retailer Blaiz, Stephanie Mordehachvili brings the best of Latin American brands to London shoppers.
17 April 2019 10:58 am
12 April 2019 3:47 pm
12 April 2019 2:11 pm
11 April 2019 11:23 pm
Dedicated footwear retailers came out on top of Drapers’ Hit or Miss review of Intu Watford’s spring 19 offer, despite some strong product in fashion stores.
Entries are now open for the Drapers Digital Awards - recognising the best of the best in ecommerce across the fashion industry in the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
 Find out more and enter 
17 April 2019 9:16 am
15 April 2019 6:36 am
12 April 2019 3:35 pm
12 April 2019 11:18 am
Gym King’s Jay Parker has built a thriving athleisure brand in a competitive market before his 30th birthday. He talks to Drapers about keeping the business fighting fit and cracking the US.

9 January 2008
By Marino Donati

However the show got off to a busy start in general , with the weather overcast but not too cold. More UK retailers are expected to attend the Italian fair tomorrow, but suppliers told Drapers they still expected to see fewer buyers and smaller teams from the larger store groups than at last year’s exhibition following a tough year for retailers.
Corneliani’s UK sales manager Gerry Dixon said: “I haven’t seen any UK buyers on the stand yet but there are a few about including indies. The autumn show is traditionally stronger than the summer one but I don’t really know what to expect this time, although our end of the market is probably holding up better than the middle-market.”
12 March 2019Jill Geoghegan
Luxury house Givenchy will show its spring 20 collection at Florence menswear trade show Pitti Uomo in June, as a special guest designer of the organisers.
11 February 2019Isabella Fish
British footwear brand Barker Shoes has opened a new 550sq ft flagship on London’s Old Broad Street.
22 January 2019Harriet Brown
Heritage brand Barbour has teamed up with British lifestyle brand Emma Bridgewater to launch a capsule collection for autumn 19.
14 January 2019Grace Whelan
Turnover increased by 9.2% to £185.3m at heritage British brand Barbour for the year to 30 April 2018.
You must sign in to make a comment
Please remember that the submission of any material is governed by our Terms and Conditions and by submitting material you confirm your agreement to these Terms and Conditions. Links may be included in your comments but HTML is not permitted.
EMAP Publishing Limited Company number 
7880758 (England & Wales) Registered address: 
7th Floor, Vantage London, Great West Road,
Brentford, United Kingdom, TW8 9AG
Site powered by Webvision






La Info que Te ocultan


Buscar entradas de blog


Una reunión cuasi secreta a la que asistieron 150 de los mejores científicos del mundo, se produjo para discutir acerca de la clonación humana, según revela el diario The Express.


Los científicos discutieron la recreación total de un genoma humano sintético.
Los organizadores de la reunión, que tuvo lugar en la Escuela de Medicina de Harvard, en…

                                                        Añadido por mariluz garrido garcia el mayo 18, 2016 a las 2:34pm                            —
                                                            No hay comentarios                                                

                                                        Añadido por RezizteK NEWS el mayo 18, 2016 a las 2:00am                            —
                                                            No hay comentarios                                                

En una entrevista a una miliciana de YPJ, las unidades kurdas de protección de la mujer, le preguntaron si no tenía miedo de ir a la guerra. "¿Miedo?", respondió sorprendida. "El miedo es para las mujeres occidentales en sus cocinas".
Cuando leí que había una zona de oriente medio donde la…

                                                        Añadido por Dany el mayo 9, 2016 a las 2:46pm                            —
                                                            No hay comentarios                                                

Michael Franco 26 de de abril de, el año 2016…

                                                        Añadido por Dany el mayo 8, 2016 a las 9:49am                            —
                                                            No hay comentarios                                                
Ver todos
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
1999
Bienvenido aContraperiodismo Mátrix
Registrarseo Inicia la sesión
Or sign in with:

canal youtube contraperiodismo

Canal Vimeo Contraperiodismo
El misterio de los vampiros bakaladeros: en Transilvania con el Conde Drácula
Estos son los youtubers tierra plana expuestos y ridiculizados
Mantra = “lo que libera la mente”: ASÍ FUNCIONAN Y SALVAN TU VIDA
¡Ya hay energía libre! Y los aliens la usan ¡MIRA!
Agatha Christie Revela El Secreto del Universo
13 miembros 
80 miembros 
63 miembros 
9 miembros 
10 miembros 
12 miembros 
43 miembros 
20 miembros 
59 miembros 
4 miembros 
B
Ringo Horo
Moksa
Green
infinitewarrior
Babanam kevalam 8
Juan antonio
Christian Emmanuel
juan manuel montaño
Navi

    © 2019               Creado por drmatrix.             
    Tecnología de

 

Emblemas  | 
                        Reportar un problema  | 
                        Términos de servicio

Por favor verifica la configuracion de tu navegador o contacta a el administrador de tu sistema.
Approximately 10% of all government spending is lost due to fraud. Because the government spends over a trillion dollars each year, that adds up to $100 billion. What can you do about it or how can you get a reward for reporting fraud against the government?
Often, fraud goes undetected unless a whistleblower steps forward. In fact, 80% of all government fraud cases are brought by whistleblowers. Under the False Claims Act, the Department of Justice has a whistleblower reward program that pays rewards of a portion of the funds it recovers.
So far, the Department of Justice whistleblower reward program has recovered $25 billion back from those who cheated the government and has paid out $3 billion in rewards to whistleblowers. However, most Americans are still unaware of this reward program where a private person who steps forward with information gets a portion of the recovery for reporting fraud against the government—up to 30% of what the Department of Justice recovers back from the cheating company. The largest rewards for reporting fraud against the government exceed $100 million, and the average whistleblower reward is $1 million.
Under the False Claims Act, the Department of Justice pays rewards of up to 30% of the funds it recovers. This includes reporting fraud under any of the more than 20 federal programs, such as Medicare or military fraud. It even extends to Bailout fraud and TARP fraud. Many states now have similar reward programs. The IRS is even offering whistleblower rewards for reporting tax evasion or income tax fraud.
How to Report Fraud under the False Claims Act
Like anything else involving the government, you have to follow the exact procedures—or else you won’t meet the standards and won’t get a reward.  Although the government wants to partner with you, there are some technical requirements you must meet and pitfalls to avoid.
What most don’t realize is that you must do more than call a hotline or be the first one to contact the government. That is not enough. To be eligible for a whistleblower reward you must actually file an application in a legal court proceeding in federal court similar to what you would do in any civil lawsuit.  In addition, you must actually use a qualified attorney. Because it is a legal proceeding, it only makes sense to hire an attorney familiar with the False Claims Act. (Most quality attorneys representing whistleblowers work on a contingency, so you won’t have to spend any out of pocket money to claim a reward.)
If you are the first one to properly file and follow the correct steps, you are eligible for up to 25% of the amount of fraudulent payments recovered back.  Approximately $3 billion in whistleblower rewards have already been paid, and the largest rewards exceed $150 million. Nearly 1 out of 5 applicants have received a reward.
Examples of Fraud Schemes against the Government
The Department of Justice whistleblower reward program applies to anytime a person or company cheats or commits fraud under any federal contract or program, such as Medicare Fraud and Medicaid Fraud, TARP fraud, Bailout Program fraud, and fraud against the military, homeland security and other federal agencies. It even includes companies cheating the Post Office or underpaying royalties as well as grant fraud (research/educational) or guaranteed loan program fraud. It doesn’t matter what government program was cheated, you can earn a reward for reporting it. The ways companies cheat the government are numerous, and the government needs your help in stamping out fraud against the government.
It’s time to find out how to get a reward for reporting fraud against the government under the False Claims Act.

Joel Hesch spent 15 years as an attorney in the Fraud Division of the Department of Justice (1990-2006) administering the national whistleblower reward program. He is the author of a recent book, Whistleblowing: A Guide to Government Reward Programs (How to Collect Millions of Dollars for Reporting Fraud). He is currently a law school professor and represents whistleblowers filing for monetary rewards for reporting fraud. Please visit his informative website, www.HowToReportFraud.com, to learn more about government reward programs.

Joel Hesch spent 15 years as an attorney in the Fraud Division of the Department of Justice (1990-2006) administering the national whistleblower reward program. He is the author of a recent book, Whistleblowing: A Guide to Government Reward Programs (How to Collect Millions of Dollars for Reporting Fraud). He is currently a law school professor and represents whistleblowers filing for monetary rewards for reporting fraud. Please visit his informative website, www.HowToReportFraud.com, to learn more about government reward programs.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 

Math Captcha
 + 59 = 60

 




This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Hybrid Cloud Security
Data Centre Security
Cloud Security
Virtualisation Security

Network Security
Integrated Advanced Threat Prevention
Advanced Threat Detection

User Protection
Endpoint and Gateway Suites
Endpoint Security
Email Security
Web Security
SaaS Application Security
Forensics
Solutions for:
Ransomware
Linux Servers

Compliance
Cloud

Point-of-Sale
End-of-Support Systems

All Products and Trials
All Solutions
Small Business

Centralised Visibility & Control
Global Threat Intelligence
Connected Threat Defence
Hybrid Cloud Security
Data Centre Security
Cloud Security
Virtualisation Security

Network Security
Integrated Advanced Threat Prevention
Advanced Threat Detection

User Protection
Endpoint and Gateway Suites
Endpoint Security
Email Security
Web Security
SaaS Application Security
Forensics
Solutions for:
Ransomware
Linux Servers

Compliance
Cloud

Point-of-Sale
End-of-Support Systems

All Products and Trials
All Solutions
Small Business

Centralised Visibility & Control
Global Threat Intelligence
Connected Threat Defence
Breaking News & Intelligence
Security News
Simply Security Blog
Security Intelligence Blog

Webinars
Events
Glossary of Terms
Threat Encyclopaedia

 
Research & Reports
The Deep Web
Internet of Things (IoT)
Enterprise Guides

Vulnerabilities

 
 
Security Reports
Annual Predictions
Zero Day Initiative (ZDI)
All Research

 
Business Support
Login to Support
Technical Support
Virus & Threat Help
Renewals & Registration

Contact Support
Downloads
Free Clean-up Tools
Find a Support Partner
For popular products:
Deep Security
OfficeScan
Worry Free
Other products
Partner Overview
Find a Partner (Reseller, CSP, MSP)
Find a Distributor
Become a Partner (Reseller, Integrator)
All Alliance Partners
Partner Login
Success Stories
Overview
Leadership
Customer Success Stories
Strategic Alliances
Industry Accolades
Competitive Benchmarks
Newsroom
Webinars
Events
Security Experts
Careers
History
Global Citizenship
Internet Safety for kids
Investors
Legal
Find a Partner
Contact Us
Support
+603-2772 2288
Contact Sales
Locations
Support
Find a Partner
Learn of upcoming events
Social Media Networks
Newsletter subscription
+603-2772 2288
Falling victim to a business email compromise (BEC) scam has long been touted as a problem that generally arises from human negligence. The human factor combined with the seeming immunity of scam emails to cybersecurity solutions’ detection methods make BEC a persistent threat that users and organizations must continue to take seriously. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), this scheme has already caused US$12.5 billion losses to companies as of 2018. This shows that BEC scams, while usually technically simple, are highly effective. We actively track BEC attempts and recorded 9,291 BEC attempts in 2018 Q1-Q3, a 46-percent increase from last year’s 6,342 in the same period. In our data, the U.S., Australia, and the U.K emerged as the top three countries most targeted by scammers.
Trend Micro recorded 9,291 BEC attempts in 2018 Q1-Q3 — a 46-percent increase from 2017 Q1-Q3 
I
nstead of relying on high-skill technical methods, BEC scammers bank heavily on social engineering schemes, exploiting human nature to yield hefty gains. While the ubiquity of tech services in enterprise environments has prompted BEC scammers to impersonate Microsoft and Amazon in their display name deception tactics, they have continued to imitate high-ranking members of a company to intercept or divert money transfers. For 2018, data from Trend Micro™ Smart Protection Network™ security infrastructure shows that CEOs and Managing Directors/Directors are the most-spoofed executives.
To keep abreast of the landscape that BEC scammers are operating in, we look back on some of the noteworthy incidents and trends that made BEC a headline staple this year.
Pathé, a popular French film production and distribution company, found itself in a situation fit for a legal drama movie when a former employee filed a lawsuit citing unfair dismissal. A BEC scam that cost Pathé more than US$21 million was believed to be the trigger for the dismissal of its Amsterdam-based financial director.On March 8, scammers sent a BEC email to the Amsterdam branch managing director. The email, which impersonated Pathé’s chief executive, asked the managing director to make a confidential payment of over US$900,000. Although the managing director forwarded the email to an assistant and discussed it with the finance director, the email was not spotted as a scam and eventually led to five consecutive money transfers to scammers in less than a month. Pathé’s losses due to the scam may be the biggest reported stolen amount from a single company for this year.
On top of losses due to the theft, Pathé incurred losses due to the legal dispute with the finance director. The former won and the court demanded Pathé to pay compensation, gross pension, and other emoluments.
T
he Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (ACCC) Scamwatch reported that the number of BEC scam incidents has increased by a third in 2018, with reported losses reaching AU$2.8 million dollars. The ACCC Deputy Chair noted that there is a misconception that BEC scammers target only small businesses, one that is debunked by the fact that Australian medium-sized businesses constituted the biggest numbers in reports and losses in the commission’s data.
Various organizations can be affected, from charities and local sporting clubs to real estate agents and the construction industry, with one losing more than AU$300,000.
BEC accounts for 63 percent of business losses reported to ACCC — a troubling figure that has prompted the commission to encourage Australian businesses to immediately review their process of verifying and paying accounts and invoices.
In September, CNBC reported about the unfortunate experience of two anonymous fraud victims who lost not just six-figure sums but also their dream houses and, for one individual, majority of his/her life savings. Theirs was not an isolated case. The FBI highlighted in a public service announcement (PSA) in July that there is a trend of BEC scammers targeting people in the real estate sector, for example, buyers, sellers, title companies, law firms, and agents.The FBI noted that, from 2015 to 2017, there was an increase of over 1,100 percent in the number of victims from real estate transactions.  May 2018 saw the highest number of reports of real estate victims while September 2017 had the highest recorded victim loss. Most victims reported being deceived by spoofed emails during real estate transactions, wherein they were directed to send funds to a falsified domestic account.Scammers are able to worm their way into the digital space of victims by using public information on real estate listing sites. Such information may include for-sale homes, the status of a sale, as well as the real estate agent’s contact information.
C
ybercriminals in Nigeria have been known for posing as people in financial need, online love interests, or generous princes. Now, they appear to be expanding their business by branching out to BEC schemes — a move that can potentially earn them hundreds of millions of dollars a year.Crowdstrike, which reported on the Black Axe gang, found that targets range from semiconductor makers to U.S. schools. Gang members impersonated executives and lawyers to lure victims into transferring huge sums of money to bank accounts. Their schemes seem to have paid off as they flaunt luxurious lifestyles on social media. Security researchers who have been tracking Nigerian cybercriminal gangs also note the gangs’ focus on social engineering, at times even using video calls. Once transferred, the defrauded money is laundered through bank accounts in China and other Asian countries.
L
aw enforcement agencies worldwide have been keeping a close watch on BEC scams due to the huge losses year on year since the FBI started recording in 2013. A testament to this is Operation WireWire, what is possibly the biggest crackdown on BEC scammers, which culminated in June. The major coordinated law enforcement initiative of the FBI, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of the Treasury, and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, with the help of partner agencies in multiple countries, led to the arrest of 74 people in the U.S., Nigeria, Canada, Mauritius, and Poland. The operation disrupted fraudulent wire transfers, leading to the recovery of about US$14 million, and seized an additional US$2.4 million.The FBI Director, Christopher Wray, said the bureau will continue working with law enforcement agencies in other countries to stop fraud schemes like BEC and protect citizens’ assets.After Operation WireWire, more arrests and indictments were made. In the same month, eight people were arrested for involvement in an Africa-based BEC conspiracy which swindled individuals and companies alike of US$15 million in a span of six years. In August, a man was arrested in Los Angeles for allegedly using six different false identities to open 23 bank accounts for fraudulent wire transfers. In one instance, his accomplice sent spoofed emails to a victim, leading to the transfer of US$531,981 to an account of a woman, who, in turn, transferred $60,000 to one of his fraudulent accounts.
I
n our security predictions for 2019, apart from high-ranking company members, we predict that BEC scammers will target employees further down the company hierarchy, for example, secretaries or executive assistants. Because of its crafty nature — and human nature — usual cybersecurity best practices and solutions may be rendered futile. But there are security technologies available now that can help users and organizations avoid falling for it.Writing Style DNA, which is used by Trend Micro Cloud App Security™ (CAS) and ScanMail™ Suite for Microsoft® Exchange™ (SMEX), can help detect email impersonation tactics used in BEC and similar scams. It uses artificial intelligence (AI) to recognize the DNA of a user’s writing style based on past emails and then compares it to suspected forgeries. The technology verifies the legitimacy of the email content’s writing style through a machine learning model (ML) that contains the legitimate email sender’s writing characteristics. When an email is suspected of spoofing high-profile users or their subordinates, the writing style is compared to a trained ML model and a warning is sent to the implied sender, the recipient, and the IT department.
To minimize the risk of BEC, addressing the human factor is critical. Cybersecurity awareness training and enforcing best practices against email threats can help stop scammers in their tracks. These, when supported by advanced security technologies (for example, Writing Style DNA) that interoperate with other security layers, build an effective defense against BEC scams and other cyber-enabled threats.
Like it? Add this infographic to your site:1. Click on the box below.   2. Press Ctrl+A to select all.   3. Press Ctrl+C to copy.   4. Paste the code into your page (Ctrl+V).
Image will appear the same size as you see above.
Our security predictions for 2019 are based on our experts’ analysis of the progress of current and emerging technologies, user behavior, and market trends, and their impact on the threat landscape.View the 2019 Security Predictions
Looking back at the most significant issues of 2018, we saw shifting cybercriminal strategies and lingering security threats. View the 2018 Annual Security Roundup
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. (Photo: Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
Former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver pleaded not guilty to charges of extortion, mail and wire fraud today—and his attorneys asked the judge to toss out the indictment against him.
In a lengthy motion to dismiss, Mr. Silver’s attorneys argued U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara had created a media firestorm that sought to try the lawmaker in the press—for doing something Mr. Silver’s team argued isn’t even a crime.
“Of course, there is nothing wrong with a New York state legislator earning outside income from other professional pursuits: Part-time public service has long been the norm in this State,” his defense team wrote. “Nor is there anything improper about an attorney earning referral fees for bringing in business to a law firm: ‘Rainmaking’ is not a federal crime.”
Mr. Bharara has alleged that what Mr. Silver presented as legitimate outside income from law firms was actually millions of dollars of kickbacks and bribes gained through his official position in Albany. The lawmaker is accused of using his influence to “induce real estate developers with business before the State” to use a real estate law firm run by his former counsel in the Assembly, which paid Mr. Silver for the referrals. He is also accused of trading research funds for asbestos patient referrals for another law firm.
A grand jury last week returned an indictment on three counts—one each of wire fraud, mail fraud and extortion. But Mr. Silver’s attorneys argued that the lawmaker never had a fair chance after Mr. Bharara created a “media frenzy” that began even before his arrest, let alone before a grand jury was impaneled.
“In an effort that could only serve to prejudice the jury pool, the U.S. Attorney has prosecuted this case full bore through the press,” his lawyers argued in their motion to dismiss.
Mr. Silver’s defense team argued that Mr. Bharara had “flagrant violated” publicity rules, which they argued prohibit him from making statements that may influence the outcome of the trial and limit him to discussing just the facts. The motion points to news reports outlining Mr. Bharara’s rhetoric, including his infamous “stay tuned,” citing among others the Observer headline “A Swaggering Preet Bharara Charges Sheldon Silver With Public Corruption.” It also cited his comments after the arrest, including his resounding criticism the next day of Albany’s “three men in a room” governance.
“Those are the sorts of impassioned exhortations suited to a Zuccotti Park soapbox, not a prosecutor’s press conference,” the lawyers wrote.
They argued those violations warranted dismissal of the indictment, saying they had compromised the fairness of the grand jury. If the indictment isn’t tossed, they argued, at the grand jury should be polled to determined if there had been “improper influence.” The defense also called for the disclosure of the grand jury’s minutes in the case.
You can read the entire motion to dismiss below:

The truth always comes out. 13 is a very interesting number.
Leave a comment
Filed under Uncategorized
Tagged as Indictment, Money Laundering, Special Counsel, transparency
Kokkaamista, sisustamista, puutarhanhoitoa ja liikuntaa



Lähetä kommentti






      BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html');
    







Murder City Devils (more by Dana (distortion) Yavin)

Fun Fun Fun Fest says:
FUN FUN FUN FEST is announcing today two changes to the music lineup for the festival Nov 7-9, 2014 in Austin. Modest Mouse will now be performing on Saturday, Nov 8 on the Orange Stage. The band will fill the slot previously held by Death Cab For Cutie, who had to cancel their performance due to an unforeseen and unavoidable scheduling conflict. The band is very sad to miss out on FFF, and they look forward to returning to Austin in 2015.
Also, following the napkin-announced breakup of Death Grips, FFF Fest is announcing that the Murder City Devils will perform in their place on Sunday, Nov 9 on the Black Stage. Murder City Devils will be playing in support of their new album to be released Aug 5, “The White Ghost Has Blood on Its Hands Again,” which is their first full length studio release since 2000’s “In Name and Blood.”
To view the full festival music lineup broken down by day and stage – or to purchase weekend passes, Ultimate Smooth Passes (USP) and single day tickets – go to funfunfunfest.com.
FFF Fest has also recently released their 2014 Yellow Stage lineup, including comedy (Fred Armisen, Thomas Middleditch & Kumail Nanjiani from HBO’s Silicon Valley, W. Kamau Bell) and spoken word (John Waters, Jello Biafra) and more. Stay tuned for upcoming announcements on the skate & ride action sports lineup as well as this year’s Aqua Olympics program.
That was quick! It was less than a week ago (and at the start of a holiday weekend) that Fun Fun Fun Fest published their response to Death Grips.
Modest Mouse also have shows coming up in CT, NJ, NY and other places.
Death Grips were also supposed to play FYF Fest which Murder City Devils is already playing.  MCD also have a handful of other west coast dates in support of a new album called The White Ghost Has Blood on Its Hands Again (out August 5), as you can see in their tour flyer with the cover art, below…

—


AUGUST
15 Seattle, WA Showbox
17 Portland, OR Dante’s
18 Portland, OR Star Theater Portland
20 San Jose, CA The Blank Club
21 San Francisco, CA Great American Music Hall
22 San Francisco, CA Great American Music Hall
24 Los Angeles, CA FYF Fest
25 San Diego, CA The Irenic
26 Pomona, CA The Glass House Concert Hall
27 Pioneertown, CA Pappy & Harriet’s
SEPTEMBER
12 Chicago, IL Riot Fest
NOVEMBER
9 Austin, TX Fun Fun Fun Fest
—
More Galleries

			It appears that you already have an account created within our VIP network of sites on .
			To keep your personal information safe, we need to verify that it's really you.
			To activate your account, please confirm your  password.
			When you have confirmed your password, you will be able to log in through Facebook on both sites.
		


Enter your password

Forgot your password?

It appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . To connect your existing account just click on the account activation button below. You will maintain your existing VIP profile. After you do this, you will be able to always log in to http://www.brooklynvegan.com using your original account information.

Please fill out the information below to help us provide you a better experience.


Zip



Not a member? Sign up here
BrooklynVegan brought to you by:

Sign up for BrooklynVegan quickly by connecting your Facebook account.  It's just as secure and no password to remember!
BrooklynVegan brought to you by:
An analysis of double voting presented on Sept. 12, 2017 to the meeting of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity by former Rhode Island election official Ken Block reveals the need for a comprehensive system to thwart vote fraud.
Read report. (PDF 445k)
Comments are closed.
Subscribe to The Advocate, a unique, weekly compilation of news and commentary.
A project of

LA SCHMOCK`s mixtape series „BUDDYLECTRIC“ returns with vibing Number 8! Including 13 summer cookies to enjoy your delicious summer!
Tracklist:
1. Mitch Murder: Looking Back (Snippet Intro)
2. Cherokee: Passion
3. Xtrafunk: Summer Sun (Cézaire Remix)
4. Hardkiss: Cameras Are Watching (AGFA Remix)
5. Glen Chek: I`ve Got This Feeling (Kartell Remix)
6. Lumoon & Robin: Classique
7. Irregular Disco Workers: Blindfolded (Jad & The Ladyboy`s Disco Workout)
8. Master Chic: Naku Penda Piya
9. Studio Lace: Defender
10. NTEIBINT: Feelings
11. José Gonzales: Let It Carry (Holy Ghost! Remix)
12. Caroline Koch: Timeless (Tchami Remix)
13. Club Cheval: From The Basement To the Roof (Oliver Remix)


 
One of our favorite artists, the swedish duo Sally Shapiro, just released a remix album of their „Elsewhere“ album some days ago. It`s packed full with extraordinary remixes by great producers like Lovelock, Mitch Murder, Little Boots, Henning Fürst, Young Galaxy, The Field, Com Truise and more. We picked two amazing remixes by Mitch Murder and Lovelock for you to listen. Epic! Don`t miss the others and get all the remixes on Juno!
 

 

 
Like Sally Shapiro here and follow them here!
 

 
Today we want to call attention to this podcast-mixtape by Sally Shapiro which they made for Los Angeles URB Magazine. As you know Sally Shapiro is a swedish duo including a same-named female singer and the also well known producer and DJ Johan Agebjörn. In this mix they formed their typical italo-touched electronic-disco by some older and new tunes and we like it a lot. Don`t miss it and keep it as forthcoming standard on your mp3-devices. Glossy, cheezy, lovely!
 

 
TRACKLIST:
1. Biosphere – The Seal And The Hydrophone
2. Samoa Park – Tubular Affair
3. Sally Shapiro – I Dream With An Angel Tonight (Lovelock Remix)
4. Mitch Murder – Glass Cities
5. Tensnake – Show Me
6. Chris Malinchak feat. Damon C. Scott – No Secrets
7. Tom Hooker & Miki Chieregato – No Elevation (Flashback Remix)
8. Walter Jones – Talk To Me
9. Bottin feat. Jupiter – Sage Comme Une Image (Club Mix)
10. Sally Shapiro – This City’s Local Italo Disco DJ Has A Crush On Me
11. Hot Cold – I Can Hear Your Voice
12. Bogdan Irkük a.k.a. Bulgari – The Thracian Plain
13. Lindstrøm & Christabelle – Looking For What (Johan Agebjörn ft. Sally Shapiro Remix)
14. Krister Linder – Dare
 
 

Happy New Year!
 
 mitch murder – shoot the core! by mitch murder
 
 
 
BELL BIV LAEVOE is an electronic-indie-disco music blog based in Berlin and everywhere else in the world. Founded by Berlin-based DJ LA Schmock and cityhopper DJ HiFi Brown.
We are blogging sounds without much comment. All tracks posted are for promotional use only and express our love to the music and reflect our taste in music. If you want something removed, please email us: 

contact@bellbivlaevoe.com 


			BELL BIV LAEVOE is a music blog based in Berlin and everywhere else on the world.Founded by Berlin-based DJ LA Schmock and cityhopper DJ HiFi Brown. All tracks posted are for promotional use only and express our love to the music and reflect our taste in music. If you want something removed, please email us.
We use cookies to give you the best experience possible. By continuing we’ll assume you’re on board with our cookie policy
Hire Writer
Get custom essay sample written according to your requirements
Sorry, but copying text is forbidden on this website!
Stories about pirates are some of the interesting and clever stories to tell such as the Treasure Island. It is a classic story about a young pirate, written by Robert Louis Stevenson and published in 1883. It tells about the young boy, Jim Hawkins, who turned into a pirate with his crew searching for the treasure (“Treasure Island”). Robert Louis Stevenson was a famous Scottish author of travel and adventure books, but he also wrote fiction stories, essays and poems (“Robert Louis Stevenson”). He pursued engineering first followed by law; however his interest was never in either of those.
He was fond of reading and travelled many places before he became a famous writer (“Treasure Island: About the Author”). The story about Treasure Island is narrated by Jim Hawkins. He tells the story based from his observations, feelings, perceptions, and on how he responds to the people and events around him. He became easily involved in the pirate game and treasure hunting since his family owned the Admiral Benbow inn. There stayed Billy Bones, the captain who has the map of the treasure that Captain Flint buried.
Captain Flint is already dead however the men who worked for him are still alive and searching for his buried treasure (“Treasure Island: Character Profiles”). The first pirate that Jim met is Billy Bones who stayed at their inn. Bones is a ragged, scarred, and drunkard pirate who always sing a pirate song; but he was kind with Jim. He always asks Jim to look out for any seafaring men along the shore which Jim thought that the man only wants some company. However, it turned out that the man is eager to avoid the other seafaring men especially the ‘seafaring man with one leg’ (“Treasure Island”).
We will write a custom essay sample on Jim Hawkins: A Young Pirate specifically for you 
We will write a custom essay sample on Jim Hawkins: A Young Pirate specifically for you FOR ONLY $16.38 $13.9/page
We will write a custom essay sample on Jim Hawkins: A Young Pirate specifically for you FOR ONLY $16.38 $13.9/page
One day, another pirate named Black Dog, a companion of Billy Bones, came to Jim and asked for the whereabouts of Billy Bones. Both pirates wrestle until Bones is greatly injured. However, a blind pirate named Pew came with horsemen to Bones and delivered the ‘black spot’. After Bones died, Jim snatched a key and an oilskin packet from Bones. He and his mother left immediately and went to the next village. The village people, however, are not willing to help them and the two hide under the bridge. The men continuously searched for the “Flint’s fist” but they could not find it.
They escaped leaving Pew behind while the horses of the revenue officers from the village trampled him to death (Nelson). Jim and his mother stayed with Dr. Livesey and Squire Trelawney where the squire analyzed the packet that Jim got from Billy Bones. The squire said that it is the account book of the ‘black-hearted hound’. After studying the rest of the oilskin packet, they found a map of Captain John Flint’s Treasure Island. Trelawney became eager to find the treasure and planned the rest of the voyage including the finances.
He secured on of the best ships in England, the Hispaniola, and hired several men including a one-legged ‘seafaring man’ named Long John Silver and a group of sailors. Jim unexpectedly became part of the instant adventure (Nelson). Long John Silver was very much liked by Jim and the squire because of his performance as the ship’s cook. At the beginning of their journey, he is friendly and helpful to the rest of the crew however he is as notorious as Captain Flint who is concerned only about the money he can get (“Treasure Island: Character Profiles”).
Jim, while hiding in an apple barrel, accidentally overhears Silver, Israel Hand, and Dick talking about their plan of overtaking the ship once they get the treasure. After getting on land, Captain Smollet together with his men fought with Silver and the pirates. Jim and his group escaped together with Ben Gunn, one of the original members of Captain Flint’s crew who was abandoned in the Treasure Island three years ago. Jim together with his group is lead to Gunn’s secret cave where he relocated Captain Flint’s treasure.
In spite of Silver’s plan, Jim, Trelawney, Dr. Livesey, Gunn and the rest of the group are able to retrieve the treasure and haul it to Hispaniola and return to England (“Treasure Island”). Treasure Island is an exciting book inspired by adventures of notorious pirates. During the early 1700s, thousands of pirates wander along different seas in the world who plundered ships and private vessels for coins and precious metals that were likely hidden in small islands. This perhaps is one of the sources of Stevenson’s pirate stories.
However, most of the pirates began in their early twenties until they age fifty or so, some crippled, blind, or dead. Young pirates were also common, but there were no enough records to prove that teenagers became fierce pirates. Young pirates like Jim Hawkins is like a dream come true for kids who always dream of sailing and travelling and someday finding a treasure (“Treasure Island”). In the early 18th century, there was a story about a young boy who joined a group of buccaneers. The story was based from the records of Captain “Black Sam” Bellamy.
In 1716, Captain Bellamy’s ship Marianne attacked Bonetta, a ship travelling from Antigua to Jamaica. Some of Bonetta’s crew joined the pirates. John King, a kid travelling with his mother, also wanted to join the group of buccaneers so bad that he even threatened to kill himself after the captain did not allow him. It was not clear why John wanted to become a pirate, but there were speculations that maybe he was with a harsh parent or he does not want to go wherever they are going. Later, a kind a charismatic Captain Bellamy allowed John King to join the band (Krystek).
In connection with the story of John King, a treasure hunter named Barry Clifford searched for the remains of Captain Bellamy’s boat – Whydah that sunk along Cape Cod. He found a cannon, artifacts, and silver coins. The artifacts they found included a human leg bone, a stocking, and a shoe belonging to a tiny adult, as he said. However in 2006, after the bone was examined in The Center for Historical Archeology in Florida, they found out that the bone belonged to a child aged between eight and eleven years old. The tale of a John King, a little boy who turned into a young pirate indeed was true (Krystek).
In the early chapter of Treasure Island, the story was established through the first person narrative of Jim Hawkins. Money is introduced as the major driving force of the characters’ actions. Through Jim’s narration of events, greed and corruption are even more highlighted. As the number of pirates looking for the map increases, it pushes Jim into learning more about the treasure and acquiring the map. The first six chapters slowly unravel Jim’s transformation. He is now not controlled by Billy Jones and the other pirates and he chooses to stand with his mother and save her.
He is beginning to take part into the action happening and acted like a hero (Nelson). In the middle chapters, more terrible things happened which challenged how Jim would respond. Jim has witnessed several deaths including Billy Bones’ and Tom’s. However, his response to the death of Tom’s death is different from Billy Bones’. He cried at Bone’s but not to Tom’s death where he just sat in silence. Upon arriving at the island after all the terrible things that he witnessed, Jim found a friend and a father figure whom he has gained trust (Nelson).
At the later chapter, Jim is able to develop both physical and moral strength after their triumph against the pirates. Jim is able to survive and gain enough guts to face Silver and his crew and help his crew. He has matured and does not act like a child in the middle of the events. Jim is a child and adult in deciding and justifying the things he did. He is now acting not just to save himself but also the rest of his crew after he stole and find a boat. He became the story’s hero but not because of luck and fortune. Also, Jim does not forget how to be adventurous and try things despite failure.
He never gives up although he is now engaging to wrong choices, these are justifiable by the arbitrary death that could happen anytime (“Treasure Island: Character Profiles”). Throughout the story, Jim Hawkins character changed from a simple observer of the events around him into a character who became actively involved and became a certified pirate. Even though he is just a kid, he is able to help in uncovering the mutiny plan of Long John Silver and retrieve the treasure. He became a competent boy physically and beat Israel Hands.
He has grown morally mature after choosing not to run away from Long John silver despite Dr. Livesey urging him to. Jim is a smart boy with courage and good heart. Anyone reading the book could easily identity himself with Jim. Stevenson created it in such a way the reader could put his own imaginations in place of Jim. Jim Hawkins is an open, predictable character who narrates the story by telling what he sees and observed, but is close in telling his own feelings and thoughts about the other characters (Nelson). The transformation in Jim’s character was evident when he delivered a speech to the pirates.
He is able to survive and save himself against the fierce pirates by offering deals that an adult would usually do. His courage has developed from their journey, a courage that he does not have back to the inn. An interesting encounter between Jim and Long John Silver once proved Jim’s ability to stand up and fought for himself even though it is Silver, a notorious pirate, he is talking to (Nelson). Jim Hawkins justifies the thoughts and imagination of a teenager and later the beginning stage of maturity developed from the combination of different adversities.
The story of Jim Hawkins and the Treasure Island is not as exciting as it is when summarized because there is no other of telling his story in such an engaging way except reading all the chapters.
Works Cited
Krystek, Lee. “The Littlest Pirate”. 2006. 5 May 2008. <http://www. unmuseum. org/piratelittle. htm>. Nelson, Britanny. “Gradesaver: Treasure Island – Study Guide – Character List”. 2008. 5 May 2008. <http://www. gradesaver. com/classicnotes/titles/treasure/charlist. html>. “Robert Louis Stevenson”. 2008. Jalic Inc. 5 May 2008. <http://www. online-literature. com/stevenson/>. “Treasure Island”.
Bibliomania. com Ltd. 5 May 2008. <http://www. bibliomania. com/0/0/46/88/frameset. html>. “Treasure Island”. 2008. Wiley Publishing. 5 May 2008. <http://www. cliffsnotes. com/WileyCDA/LitNote/Treasure-Island-Character-Analyses-Jim-Hawkins. id-175,pageNum-32. html>. “Treasure Island: About the Author”. 2008. Wiley Publishing. 5 May 2008. <http://www. cliffsnotes. com/WileyCDA/LitNote/Treasure-Island-About-the-Author-Personal-Background. id-175,pageNum-1. html>. “Treasure Island: Character Profiles”. 2008. Novelguide. 5 May 2008. <http://www. novelguide. com/TreasureIsland/characterprofiles. html>.
Jim Hawkins: A Young Pirate. (2017, Mar 22). Retrieved from http://turjvg.biz/jim-hawkins-a-young-pirate-essay
We will write a custom essay sample onJim Hawkins: A Young Piratespecifically for you
Leave your email and we will send you an example after 24 hours 23:59:59
Let us edit for you at only $13.9/page to make it 100% original
Sorry, but copying text is forbidden on this website.
If you need this or any other sample, we can send it to you via email.
Sorry, but downloading is forbidden on this website
How AboutMake It Original?
If you need this or any other sample, we can send it to you via email.
Thank You!
How about make it original at only $13.9/page?
© 2014 - 2018 turjvg.biz
(415) 230-5300
At turjvg.biz you will find a wide variety of top-notch essay and term paper samples on any possible topics absolutely for free. Want to add some juice to your work? No problem! Here you will also find the best quotations, synonyms and word definitions to make your research paper well-formatted and your essay highly evaluated.
Our customer support team is available Monday-Friday 9am-5pm EST. If you contact us after hours, we'll get back to you in 24 hours or less.
Hi, I am Sara from Studymoose
Hi there, would you like to get such a paper? How about receiving a customized one? Check it out
                
                    http://goo.gl/CYf83b
                

Hi, I am Sara from Studymoose
Hi there, would you like to get such a paper? How about receiving a customized one? Check it out
                
                    http://goo.gl/CYf83b
                

Your Answer is very helpful for Us Thank you a lot!
Share This Result
Add vehicles to compare. You can compare up to 3 vehicles at a time.
 Reported by:  `admin   November 23, 2018
Former Sri Lanka cricketer Sanath Jayasuriya and two other persons have been charged with smuggling rotten betel nut to India, a news report said.
The directorate of revenue intelligence had seized betel nut worth millions of rupees in Nagpur following which Jayasuriya’s name came to light, as per a report in Dainik Bhaskar.
Jayasuriya was also called to Mumbai for questioning by the revenue intelligence team following which a letter has been sent to Sri Lanka government for a further inquiry.
According to the report, two other cricketers would be summoned by December 2.
The deputy director of revenue intelligence, Dilip Sivare said the seized betel nut was first brought from Indonesia to Sri Lanka from where it was smuggled to India. Dummy companies have also been formed in Sri Lanka to execute the smuggling, he added.
As per sources, the cricketers used their influence to obtain the license from the Sri Lanka government and formed dummy companies.
After the raid in Nagpur, it came to light that fake documents were prepared for the production. It was shown that the production was being done in Sri Lanka so as to evade import duty.
April 15, 2019
April 11, 2019
April 8, 2019
April 4, 2019
April 1, 2019
March 28, 2019




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

Diese Website benutzt funktionelle Cookies und externe Skripte, um dein Benutzererlebnis zu verbessern.
Diese Website benutzt funktionelle Cookies und externe Skripte, um dein Benutzererlebnis zu verbessern. Welche Cookies und Skripte benutzt werden und wie diese die Webseitenbenutzung beeinflussen, steht links. Du kannst deine Einstellungen jederzeit ändern. Deine Entscheidungen werden deinen Besuch nicht beeinflussen.
HINWEIS: Diese Einstellung wird nur auf den Browser und das Gerät angewendet, das du derzeit benutzt.
Der für die Verarbeitung Verantwortliche hat auf dieser Internetseite die Komponente Google Analytics (mit Anonymisierungsfunktion) integriert. Google Analytics ist ein Web-Analyse-Dienst. Web-Analyse ist die Erhebung, Sammlung und Auswertung von Daten über das Verhalten von Besuchern von Internetseiten. Ein Web-Analyse-Dienst erfasst unter anderem Daten darüber, von welcher Internetseite eine betroffene Person auf eine Internetseite gekommen ist (sogenannte Referrer), auf welche Unterseiten der Internetseite zugegriffen oder wie oft und für welche Verweildauer eine Unterseite betrachtet wurde. Eine Web-Analyse wird überwiegend zur Optimierung einer Internetseite und zur Kosten-Nutzen-Analyse von Internetwerbung eingesetzt.
Betreibergesellschaft der Google-Analytics-Komponente ist die Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043-1351, USA.
Der für die Verarbeitung Verantwortliche verwendet für die Web-Analyse über Google Analytics den Zusatz „_gat._anonymizeIp“. Mittels dieses Zusatzes wird die IP-Adresse des Internetanschlusses der betroffenen Person von Google gekürzt und anonymisiert, wenn der Zugriff auf unsere Internetseiten aus einem Mitgliedstaat der Europäischen Union oder aus einem anderen Vertragsstaat des Abkommens über den Europäischen Wirtschaftsraum erfolgt.
Der Zweck der Google-Analytics-Komponente ist die Analyse der Besucherströme auf unserer Internetseite. Google nutzt die gewonnenen Daten und Informationen unter anderem dazu, die Nutzung unserer Internetseite auszuwerten, um für uns Online-Reports, welche die Aktivitäten auf unseren Internetseiten aufzeigen, zusammenzustellen, und um weitere mit der Nutzung unserer Internetseite in Verbindung stehende Dienstleistungen zu erbringen.
Google Analytics setzt ein Cookie auf dem informationstechnologischen System der betroffenen Person. Was Cookies sind, wurde oben bereits erläutert. Mit Setzung des Cookies wird Google eine Analyse der Benutzung unserer Internetseite ermöglicht. Durch jeden Aufruf einer der Einzelseiten dieser Internetseite, die durch den für die Verarbeitung Verantwortlichen betrieben wird und auf welcher eine Google-Analytics-Komponente integriert wurde, wird der Internetbrowser auf dem informationstechnologischen System der betroffenen Person automatisch durch die jeweilige Google-Analytics-Komponente veranlasst, Daten zum Zwecke der Online-Analyse an Google zu übermitteln. Im Rahmen dieses technischen Verfahrens erhält Google Kenntnis über personenbezogene Daten, wie der IP-Adresse der betroffenen Person, die Google unter anderem dazu dienen, die Herkunft der Besucher und Klicks nachzuvollziehen und in der Folge Provisionsabrechnungen zu ermöglichen.
Mittels des Cookies werden personenbezogene Informationen, beispielsweise die Zugriffszeit, der Ort, von welchem ein Zugriff ausging und die Häufigkeit der Besuche unserer Internetseite durch die betroffene Person, gespeichert. Bei jedem Besuch unserer Internetseiten werden diese personenbezogenen Daten, einschließlich der IP-Adresse des von der betroffenen Person genutzten Internetanschlusses, an Google in den Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika übertragen. Diese personenbezogenen Daten werden durch Google in den Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika gespeichert. Google gibt diese über das technische Verfahren erhobenen personenbezogenen Daten unter Umständen an Dritte weiter.
Die betroffene Person kann die Setzung von Cookies durch unsere Internetseite, wie oben bereits dargestellt, jederzeit mittels einer entsprechenden Einstellung des genutzten Internetbrowsers verhindern und damit der Setzung von Cookies dauerhaft widersprechen. Eine solche Einstellung des genutzten Internetbrowsers würde auch verhindern, dass Google ein Cookie auf dem informationstechnologischen System der betroffenen Person setzt. Zudem kann ein von Google Analytics bereits gesetzter Cookie jederzeit über den Internetbrowser oder andere Softwareprogramme gelöscht werden.
Ferner besteht für die betroffene Person die Möglichkeit, einer Erfassung der durch Google Analytics erzeugten, auf eine Nutzung dieser Internetseite bezogenen Daten sowie der Verarbeitung dieser Daten durch Google zu widersprechen und eine solche zu verhindern. Hierzu muss die betroffene Person ein Browser-Add-On unter dem Link https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout herunterladen und installieren. Dieses Browser-Add-On teilt Google Analytics über JavaScript mit, dass keine Daten und Informationen zu den Besuchen von Internetseiten an Google Analytics übermittelt werden dürfen. Die Installation des Browser-Add-Ons wird von Google als Widerspruch gewertet. Wird das informationstechnologische System der betroffenen Person zu einem späteren Zeitpunkt gelöscht, formatiert oder neu installiert, muss durch die betroffene Person eine erneute Installation des Browser-Add-Ons erfolgen, um Google Analytics zu deaktivieren. Sofern das Browser-Add-On durch die betroffene Person oder einer anderen Person, die ihrem Machtbereich zuzurechnen ist, deinstalliert oder deaktiviert wird, besteht die Möglichkeit der Neuinstallation oder der erneuten Aktivierung des Browser-Add-Ons.
Weitere Informationen und die geltenden Datenschutzbestimmungen von Google können unter https://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy/ und unter http://www.google.com/analytics/terms/de.html abgerufen werden. Google Analytics wird unter diesem Link https://www.google.com/intl/de_de/analytics/ genauer erläutert.
Die Internetseiten der Nintendo Connect verwenden Cookies. Cookies sind Textdateien, welche über einen Internetbrowser auf einem Computersystem abgelegt und gespeichert werden.
Zahlreiche Internetseiten und Server verwenden Cookies. Viele Cookies enthalten eine sogenannte Cookie-ID. Eine Cookie-ID ist eine eindeutige Kennung des Cookies. Sie besteht aus einer Zeichenfolge, durch welche Internetseiten und Server dem konkreten Internetbrowser zugeordnet werden können, in dem das Cookie gespeichert wurde. Dies ermöglicht es den besuchten Internetseiten und Servern, den individuellen Browser der betroffenen Person von anderen Internetbrowsern, die andere Cookies enthalten, zu unterscheiden. Ein bestimmter Internetbrowser kann über die eindeutige Cookie-ID wiedererkannt und identifiziert werden.
Durch den Einsatz von Cookies kann die Nintendo-Connect den Nutzern dieser Internetseite nutzerfreundlichere Services bereitstellen, die ohne die Cookie-Setzung nicht möglich wären.
Mittels eines Cookies können die Informationen und Angebote auf unserer Internetseite im Sinne des Benutzers optimiert werden. Cookies ermöglichen uns, wie bereits erwähnt, die Benutzer unserer Internetseite wiederzuerkennen. Zweck dieser Wiedererkennung ist es, den Nutzern die Verwendung unserer Internetseite zu erleichtern. Der Benutzer einer Internetseite, die Cookies verwendet, muss beispielsweise nicht bei jedem Besuch der Internetseite erneut seine Zugangsdaten eingeben, weil dies von der Internetseite und dem auf dem Computersystem des Benutzers abgelegten Cookie übernommen wird. Ein weiteres Beispiel ist das Cookie eines Warenkorbes im Online-Shop. Der Online-Shop merkt sich die Artikel, die ein Kunde in den virtuellen Warenkorb gelegt hat, über ein Cookie.
Die betroffene Person kann die Setzung von Cookies durch unsere Internetseite jederzeit mittels einer entsprechenden Einstellung des genutzten Internetbrowsers verhindern und damit der Setzung von Cookies dauerhaft widersprechen. Ferner können bereits gesetzte Cookies jederzeit über einen Internetbrowser oder andere Softwareprogramme gelöscht werden. Dies ist in allen gängigen Internetbrowsern möglich. Deaktiviert die betroffene Person die Setzung von Cookies in dem genutzten Internetbrowser, sind unter Umständen nicht alle Funktionen unserer Internetseite vollumfänglich nutzbar.
Tickets £34.95! Includes a three-course meal and lots of murder mystery fun!

Call 01472 348909 to obtain tickets! Group discounts are available on large bookings.
Roasted Courgette & Tomato Soup
Ham Hock TerrineHomemade Piccalilli, Multigrain Toast
 
Pan Roast Chicken SupremeCreamed Cabbage, Smoked Bacon and Peas, Mushroom Sauce
Blade of BeefCarrot & Potato Puree, Sauteed Kale, Red Wine & Garlic Sauce
Vegetable RigatoniRoasted Mediterranean Vegetables, Basil & Pine Nuts, Feta Cheese

Dark & White Chocolate DeliceSalted Caramel, Honey Comb
Treacle TartSpiced Syrup, Clotted Cream Ice Cream
Millfields Hotel
07:00 PM - 10:00 PM
Comfortable and friendly. Good value. I would happily stay at Millfields again and it would always be my first choice in this area. Absolutely no negatives and I was really pleased that I had been given a recommendation to stay there.
Comfortable and friendly. Good value. I would happily stay at Millfields again and it would always be my first choice in this area. Absolutely no negatives and I was really pleased that I had been given a recommendation to stay there.
via TripAdvisor - 01/02/2018
Have been staying at this hotel for several years on business. The staff here go above and beyond to ensure that guests are looked after. Cannot do enough for guests to make their stay a good one. Excellent service each and every time.
Have been staying at this hotel for several years on business. The staff here go above and beyond to ensure that guests are looked after. Cannot do enough for guests to make their stay a good one. Excellent service each and every time.
Evadne C - 28/12/2017
Our Fitness Suite hosts the same range of Cybex equipment used at The English Institute of Sport. It is this innovative and unparalleled level of dedication to improving your fitness and wellbeing that sets us above the rest. Join us today!
Celebrate Mother's Day the Millfields way! Join us from 12:00pm - 6:30pm for our spectacular 3-course Mother's Day Menu just £24.50 per person.

                            © 2019 Millfields Hotel. Registered in England with Company No. 1211910. Privacy & Cookies | Sitemap | Accessibility
Website by Coldstar Systems

Sorry, het lijkt erop dat je Facebook de laatste keer hebt gebruikt om in te loggen en je geen Treatwell-wachtwoord hebt.

                Door te registreren ga je akkoord met onze                 
                    Algemene voorwaarden
                

Het lijkt erop dat je al een account hebt. Vul het wachtwoord van je Treatwell-account in om je Facebook te koppelen.
We hebben 97  salons gevonden
Sven, an experienced German-born massage therapist now living in Brussels, has his own salon, Massage Service Sven Parthie, in the chaussée de Wavre situated right in the heart of the city. His massage salon is completely devoted to your well-being and relaxation. Sven not only proposes relaxing massages, but also massages specially developed to relieve muscular tensions and pains, and stress-related tensions. He will do his best to relieve you from the worst stress-related problems and thereby improving the well-being of your body and soul.
Vitalité Zen situé à Forest est un centre de bien-être spécialisé en sophrologie et en massage bien-être. Dans une ambiance feutrée et apaisante, Edward possède une présence et une sensibilité qui lui permettent de s’adapter aux besoins du moment de la personne en face de lui. Il vous aide à gérer votre stress et à apaiser vos douleurs grâce à la sophrologie, méthode basée sur des exercices de respiration, de détente musculaire et de relaxation. Vous pouvez également opter pour un massage suédois ou aromatique permettant un moment de détente. Et aussi découvrir le massage Thaï permettant une sensation de détente musculaire et de paix intérieure. Ou pourquoi pas un massage des mains ? Faites également appel à Edward pour un massage assis en entreprise pour profiter d’un moment de détente entre deux réunions !
Beauty Partner Bruxelles est un institut de beauté pour elle et pour lui idéalement situé entre la Porte de Namur et la Petit Sablon. Cet institut vous propose une large gamme de soins de beauté qui vous seront prodigués à l’aide de produits innovants et d’appareils à la pointe de la technologie. L’équipe sympathique et professionnelle vous accueillera chaleureusement dans un espace élégant et épuré où vous vous sentirez tout de suite à l’aise.
Repoussez les limites du temps avec l’institut de beauté Stay Young Clinic sur la Chaussée de Waterloo à Bruxelles.
C’est dans un imposant et classieux bâtiment que vous accueille une équipe de professionnelles prête à tout pour vous faire retrouver votre jeunesse d’antan.
Spécialisé dans les solutions contre le vieillissement de la peau, l’institut utilise les dernières technologies du marché pour vous offrir des traitements efficaces et durables : photostimulation, cryolipolise, HIFU, Jet Machine System, et bien d’autres encore.
Stay Young Clinic offre également des solutions variées d’amincissement, dermatologiques et nutritionnelles pour vous accompagner dans votre lutte contre le vieillissement.
Faites confiance à l’expertise de vrais professionnels et réservez l’esprit tranquille dans votre clinique esthétique Stay Young Clinic à Bruxelles.
Philippe, massothérapeute, welcomes you in English, in het Nederlands ou en français. Au salon Longitude Zen, il vous propose un protocole unique : un massage crânien suivi d’‘holistic pulsing’ vous plongent dans un profond relâchement et vous préparent au traditionnel massage californien à l’huile chaude qui vous conduira à un lâcher-prise surprenant en fin de séance.
Philippe is an engineer, stockbroker and a finance professor who has switched careers to work in the wellness world! In his center, Longitude Zen, you can benefit from a unique wellness session: first, a head massage followed by ‘holistic pulsing’ puts your body in a deep state of relaxation... then comes the classic Californian massage (warm oil). Finally, a ‘holistic pulsing’ session leaves you in a wonderful wellness feeling.
La séance habituelle – usual session – de 1h30min est offerte à 65€ aux nouveaux/new clients !
Depuis des dizaines d’années au service de votre bien-être, Deborah vous invite à venir passer un moment d’exception, dans un lieu d’exception ! Salon Esthétique D vous propose une large gamme de soins (soins du visage, teinture de cils et sourcils, soins Yumi Lashes, manucures, pédicures, massages et gommages) dans un espace luxueux, intimiste et calme. Deborah est également réputée pour ses épilations du visage autant que du corps. Après votre premier rendez-vous dans ce salon, vous y retournerez sans doute – comme ses nombreuses clientes fidèles.
Poussez les portes du salon Alchimie et apprêtez-vous à rencontrer une équipe au top et aux petits soins. Le salon épuré, à la déco scandinave vous invite à vous détendre. Sensibles au développement durable et au respect des animaux, Anda et son équipe mettent un point d’honneur à utiliser des produits naturels, issus de productions locales et non-testés sur les animaux… des produits aussi bons pour vous que pour l’environnement ! Vous serez donc chouchouté avec des produits tels que Dr. Nobis, Spinee ou encore Kevin Murphy pour vos cheveux.
Pause toi est un institut de beauté et de bien-être installé sur l'avenue Winston Churchill à Uccle.
Vous serez chaleureusement reçu par Danielle, esthéticienne chevronnée, qui vous invite à découvrir sa gamme variée de soins de beauté.
Son but est de vous offrir les meilleurs soins disponibles en ce moment, prodigués avec des produits de qualité et un matériel à la pointe de la technologie.
Petit plus ? Un parking réservé à la clientèle est disponible à l'arrière de la maison.
Offrez-vous un moment de beauté et de détente et vous ressortirez ressourcé et embelli de chez Pause toi.
In the village Jette, close to the centre of Brussels, you can find salon Massotherapy.be. Owner Richard is very dedicated and considers your health as his main priority. He owns several diploma’s and always keeps his knowledge up to date. You will also meet Ijah's, a young fully trained therapeutist ready to spread the highest standards of quality massage. The salon is nicely decorated which creates a warm and comfortable atmosphere. The perfect environment for a relaxing massage! Richard offers you more than 13 different massages, each of them carried out with the same amount of dedication.
Ambiance contemporaine, cosy et épurée… Bienvenue à l’Institut Moreira, au coeur de la commune d’Uccle. Laissez-vous chouchouter: soins du visage, gommage, soins minceur, massages etc. Vous avez l’embarras du choix ! Le petit plus ? L’institut réalise des épilations au sucre ainsi qu’un soin minceur de dernier cri: le Cocoon IR Wellness Pro. 
NB : Les règlements sur place devront être effectués en espèces uniquement.
Buteri est un cabinet de massage et de bien-être situé sur la Chaussée de Waterloo, à Uccle, à côté de la station Longchamp.
Patiente et sérieuse, Isabelle se met à votre écoute pour comprendre vos besoins et travailler avec un grand savoir-faire sur vos problèmes, qu’ils soient physiques ou psychologiques. De son côté, Robert vous mettra en confiance avec son grand professionnalisme et sa longue expérience en tant que masseur.
Dotée d’une forte expérience et formée à de nombreuses pratiques, Isabelle propose des soins réalisés avec délicatesse et un grand professionnalisme. Que ce soit avec un massage, une séance de reiki ou encore une détoxination, vous ressortirez du salon avec un esprit de bien-être et de renaissance.
NB : Les paiements au salon seront à effectuer en espèces uniquement.
L'Excellence - zen wellness therapy est un salon de massage situé à Uccle, dans la rue Colonel Chaltin, à proximité du Parc de Wolvendael.
Découvrez un espace cocoon empreint à la détente et à la relaxation ; l’ambiance tamisée avec ses tons blancs et prunes et la décoration zen et fleurie vous invite à passer un moment hors du temps et des tracas quotidiens.
Sereine et amicale, l'équipe du salon se montre attentive à vos attentes pour vous offrir un moment d'évasion inoubliable. Spécialisés dans les massages anti-douleurs, ils se mettent à l’écoute de votre corps et mettent en pratique leur longue expérience pour vous procurer un massage professionnel et efficace.
Profitez ainsi, en solo ou en duo, des massages sportif, détox, anti-jambes lourdes, ou encore d'un délicieux massage aux huiles essentielles chaudes.
Notez que le salon utilise des produits bio et des produits de grandes tels que les soins du visage Phyt's.
NB : Les paiements au salon seront à effectuer en espèces uniquement.
Darko Katalinic welcomes you in his massage salon located in a cosy and private apartment (6th floor) in Ixelles. Certified wellness coach from the Belgrade Sports and Health University, Darko is a masseur and a bio-energy healing practitioner who has developed a massage approach adapted to the specific and personal needs of each patient. You'll be able to enjoy and try-out a variety of massages: relaxing, sports, deep tissues or his specialty, the holistic massage. It is also possible to opt for the hedonist treatment, that combines the holistic massage technique with a bio-energetic therapeutic method, or the bio-energy healing session, that focus on psychological and emotional stress. Darko speaks English, Dutch and has a basic knowledge of French.
Ostéo massage est un salon de massage situé à Bruxelles dans le Quartier des Quais, à quelques pas du méto Yser. 
Vous prenez place dans un espace joliment coloré où l'on se sent rapidement bien et entre de bonnes mains, prêt à savourer de délicieux massages ! 
Vous êtes accueilli par Jamal, un expert diplômé en massothérapie, fort de plusieurs années d'expérience. Il sait les soins les plus adaptés à vos besoins et après un entretien, vous propose des prestations de qualité ! 
Massage relaxant, sportif, du dos, raffermissant ou thaïlandais, vous n'avez que l'embarras du choix pour profiter d'un moment de bien-être et de beauté ! 
Ostéo massage, le rendez-vous relaxation à Bruxelles !
Situé à Jette, La Vie est Belle est un institut beauté à deux pas de l’arrêt de tram Lenoir. Vous serez accueilli dans un endroit à l’ambiance zen et à la décoration raffinée. Mélanie et Mélanie, deux esthéticiennes passionnées et très professionnelles, sont à votre écoute et vous propose le meilleur des soins esthétiques. Des superbes ongles, des cils XXL, un visage radieux, de beaux pieds, une peau douce ou encore un moment de détente ? Vous êtes ici à la bonne adresse. On chouchoutera votre corps et on lui redonnera toute sa beauté.
L'instant Manuela est un salon de massage pour hommes et femmes, situé à Evere, à environ 5km au nord de Bruxelles. C'est Manuela qui vous accueillera dans une ambiance relaxante et zen. Cette passionnée du monde du bien-être vous offre l'opportunité de complètement lâcher prise le temps d'un massage personnalisé à vos besoins. Massage assis, massage des pieds, massage à la bougie ou massages chinois et indien : vous pouvez choisir la formule qui vous convient le mieux. Un instant de pur bonheur à déguster sans modération ! 
NB : Le règlement au salon doit se faire en espèces uniquement.
Diva Institut de beauté est situé sur la chaussée d'Alsemberg, à Uccle, juste à côté de l'arrêt de tram et de bus Globe. Ce centre esthétique est spécialisé en épilation définitive et utilise un appareil de dernière génération qui fonctionne en balayage continu et ne provoque aucune douleur. Vous pourrez choisir de réserver à la séance ou d'opter pour des forfaits. 
NB : Les règlements sur place devront être effectués en espèces uniquement.
Christel est spécialisée en massothérapie, relaxation et réflexologie plantaire. Retrouvez Massage is Relax Thérapie à Ixelles et choisissez parmi de nombreux massages thérapeutiques : un drainage lymphatique, massage anti-cellulite ou liftant. Vous préférez un moment relaxant ? Optez pour le massage métissé, lomi lomi, sportif, thaïlandais, californien, prénatal ou oriental. Vous pouvez également profiter de la réflexologie plantaire et de ses bienfaits sur le corps.
Accès: pour accéder au salon, merci de sonner à l'interphone : MRT - Charles Donatien.
Le salon se situe au 2ème étage : il suffit de prendre l'escalier dans la cour et vous tomberez directement sur l'espace, à la porte blanche.
Nyima Tibetan massage center is ideally located in the heart of the European Quarter, right between Ambiorix Square and the Berlaymont building. The team works with passion to provide relaxing massages in the aim of reducing the physical and psychological symptoms caused by stress. Specialized in Tibetan massage as well as reflexology, they will restore your energy and keep your spirit in balance. The Nima Tibetan massage center is situated a stroll away from Brussel-Schuman train station and Schuman metro station (metro lines 1 and 5). 
Payments at the salon can be made in cash only.
Energy Wave est un centre de bien-être situé au coeur du Fort Jaco, dans la Chaussée de Waterloo à Uccle, Bruxelles.
Poussez les portes d’un magnifique espace inspirant détente et plaisir, dans un bâtiment flambant neuf. À l’intérieur, une équipe de professionnels vous réserve un accueil chaleureux et vous promet un service irréprochable.
Que ce soit pour le corps ou le visage, Energy Wave offre un large choix de soins exclusifs tels que la cryothérapie, l’oxygénothérapie, le float tank ou encore même le collarium. Une expérience unique complétée par des soins et massages réalisés avec professionnalisme et utilisant des produits de grandes marques tels que Delarom, vous assurant ainsi la meilleure des qualités.
Sorry, we're having problems with our video player at the moment, but are working to fix it as soon as we can
Waiting for Video...
Photos of the ATM robbery near Moira portray just how substantial the damage was to this popular filling station.
The Spar store on the Glenavy Road was robbed in the early hours of this morning when a number of men used a digger to remove the ATM.
It was the latest in a spate of ATM thefts and a top businessman has called for an urgent meeting with the PSNI.
Glyn Roberts, Chief Executive of the Retail NI branded the latest ATM theft from a Spar store on the Glenavy Road near Moira as ‘disgraceful’.
Police said a number of men were involved in the theft which used a digger to remove the ATM. The digger was later set on fire and this cause extensive damage to the vehicle and a garage,
Police are also investigating a possible link between this incident and an ATM theft from the Ballymena Road, Antrim on Friday 1st February.
Mr Roberts said: “This is a disgraceful attack on one of our members. It is has caused extensive damage to a local retailer that provides an invaluable service to the local community.
“With three ATM robberies in a matter of days, these attacks are now a major problem for local retailers. Retail NI will be seeking a an urgent meeting with PSNI senior officers to press for a taskforce to be established to tackle these criminal gangs.
“With so many bank branch closures in rural towns and villages in recent years, our members’ ATMs provide an invaluable service to their local communities.
“There is a real danger our members could start to remove these ATMs if these attacks continue.”
Detective Constable Martin said: “Shortly after 3:05am, it was reported that a number of males using a digger removed an ATM machine from a filling station in the area. 
“The digger, which is believed to have been taken from a nearby location close to the property was set alight following the incident.
“The roof of the garage was also set alight, as colleagues from Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service attended the scene and extinguished the fire. 
“Both the digger and the roof of the garage were extensively damaged.
“Enquiries are continuing and we are investigating a possible link between this incident and an ATM theft from the Ballymena Road, Antrim on Friday 1st February.”
©2019 JPIMedia Ltd. All rights reserved.
Why the travel/tourism industry needs to help #stophumantrafficking. Addresses from Skål International local, regional and global leaders.
Burcin Turkkan, Region IV Vice President & Fundraising Committee Liason, is a Skål USA Board Member representing 11 Region IV clubs with total 570 members, including SI Atlanta, SI Charlotte, SI Orlando, SI Jacksonville, SI Tampa, SI Ft. Lauderdale-Palm Beaches, SI Miami, SI St. Thomas, SI Puerto Rico, SI Raleigh Durham and SI Myrtle Beach. She is the recent past-president of Skål International Atlanta. Presently, she is founder/director of operations for USEH-International Services, an HR-consulting firm that specializes in the tourism and hospitality industry and the managing director of Travel to Turkey Now, a group travel and personal business travel agency specializing in arranging excursions, conventions, incentive trips and professional meetings in Turkey. 
Medicaid provides health insurance coverage for certain low-income people, families and children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. While Medicaid is funded jointly by the States and the federal government, the program is administered by the individual States, according to federal requirements.
Significantly, Medicaid fraud reportedly costs taxpayers an estimated $60 billion to $90 billion each year and threatens the very integrity of Medicaid and the critical resources it provides.
In combating Medicaid fraud, State Medicaid Fraud Control Units (“MFCU”s) are tasked with investigating and prosecuting Medicaid provider fraud and patient abuse and neglect. MFCUs are also charged with providing for the collection, or referral for collection, of overpayments they identify.
Provisions of the federal Social Security Act (“SSA”) require each State to operate a MFCU, unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that (1) the operation of a Unit would not be cost-effective because minimal Medicaid fraud exists in a particular State and (2) the State has other adequate safeguards to protect beneficiaries from abuse or neglect. MFCUs operate in 49 States and the District of Columbia. (North Dakota and the territories of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Marianas Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands have not established Units).
MFCUs must meet a number of requirements established by the SSA and Federal regulations. For example, each Unit must:
Each MFCU receives Federal reimbursement for 75% percent of its total expenditures, with State funds contributing the remaining 25%. For 2017, combined Federal and State expenditures for MFCUs totaled about $276 million (with $207 million of that amount representing Federal funds).
The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) oversees the MFCU grant program by recertifying Units, conducting onsite reviews of Units, providing technical assistance to Units, and maintaining key statistical data about Unit caseloads and outcomes.
According to the OIG’s 2017 Annual Report, MFCUs recovered $1.8 billion in misappropriated Medicaid funds – of which $1.1 billion came from civil cases and $693 million from criminal cases. The civil funds resulted from 961 civil settlements and judgments; the criminal funds were derived from 1,528 criminal convictions (of which 1,157 were fraud cases and 371 were patient abuse and neglect cases), which resulted in 1,181 individuals and entities being excluded from federally funded health programs.
In 1978, the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units (“NAMFCU”) was created to provide a forum for the MFCUs to have a mutual exchange of information, to foster interstate cooperation, and to improve the quality of Medicaid fraud and resident abuse investigations and prosecutions through training programs. NAMFCU is an organization of officials from the various state agencies that are responsible for investigating Medicaid fraud. NAMFCU helps coordinate national investigations and prosecution of Medicaid Fraud for the states. NAMFCU facilitates joint discussions of cases involving fraud where more than one state’s Medicaid system has been impacted. While membership in NAMFCU is voluntary, all 50 federally certified MFCUs are members of the Association. NAMFCU maintains its offices at the National Association of Attorneys General in Washington, D.C.
Do you need a Whistleblower Lawyer or want to know more information about Qui Tam Law and your rights under the False Claims Act?
There are three easy ways to contact our firm for a free, confidential evaluation with one of our whistleblower attorneys:
Your submission will be reviewed by a Berger Montague qui tam attorney and remain confidential.
Sign up for our Newsletter
This website contains attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome.

 
Follow @Perspectives_T
No registration is required and access is free.
There is no online submission or registration. Authors wishing to submit a piece of work should review the author guidelines and then email submissions to [email protected] 
 
ENHANCING SECURITY THROUGH COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH
Perspectives on Terrorism is  a journal of the Terrorism Research Initiative and the Center for Terrorism and Security Studies
ISSN  2334-3745 (Online)
Disclaimer, Terms and Conditions
Tiffany Crawford, Vancouver Sun 
									04.03.2014
METRO VANCOUVER - The hunt for a Langley man accused of setting his family home on fire — with his estranged wife and her two children still in it — ended with him nearly making it to the Alberta border before being cornered by police. 
Wanted for breaching a court order to stay away from his wife, Andre Richard, 44, surrendered to police outside Fernie Thursday morning after a standoff that started at about 9:30 a.m. when a motorist noticed Richard driving erratically, according to Langley RCMP spokeswoman Cpl. Holly Marks.
Police allege that Richard, who has two outstanding assault charges, set the family home on fire early Wednesday morning and attacked his wife Sonia Cella and her 14-year-old daughter with a hammer, hours after Cella filed divorce proceedings in B.C. Supreme Court.
Both Cella and her daughter were “doing well” Thursday evening after being released from hospital, Marks said.
“His estranged wife and her daughter don’t have to be completely fearful that he’ll show up on their doorstep at any moment,” Marks said.
Langley RCMP serious crime investigators will travel to Cranbrook to take over the investigation. On Thursday afternoon, Marks said investigators were preparing a report to Crown Counsel and she expected charges to be laid before the weekend. 
An arrest warrant for breaching a court order was issued Wednesday against Richard, who police say is known to them for previous domestic violence.
The online court database shows Richard was charged Jan. 1, 2009 and Feb. 22, 2014 with assault in Langley. The charges are still before the courts.
Neighbours on Wakefield Drive in Langley awoke at 1 a.m. Wednesday to a terrifying scene — the home owned by Cella and Richard engulfed in flames and the family fleeing to a nearby house. Police are treating the case as an attempted murder investigation.
RCMP allege Richard set the Langley home on fire and then attacked his wife in her bedroom. When their teenage daughter tried to help her mother, she was also attacked. Cella, her daughter and eight-year-old son escaped the residence before it was destroyed in the fire.
While Langley RCMP did not identify the weapon used in the attack, Mission RCMP tweeted that it was a hammer.
A local private school where Richard’s son attends was in lockdown while Richard was at large. Many of the parents were picking their kids up from St. Catherine’s school on Wednesday as a precaution, after the principal sent a letter informing them of the situation. 

With files from Mike Hager
ticrawford@vancouversun.com
 
===
CLICK HERE TO VIEW MORE PHOTOS, or tap and swipe the image on your mobile device.
===
Your account has been deactivated.
Sorry, we could not verify that email address.
Your account has been reactivated.
			
Sign in


You must verify your email address before signing in. Check your email for your verification email, or enter your email address in the form below to resend the email.
Please confirm your details below.
Postmedia wants to improve your reading experience as well as share the best deals and promotions from our advertisers with you. The information below will be used to optimize the content and make ads across the network more relevant to you. You can always change the information you share with us by editing your profile.
Attention Print Newspaper SubscribersFor verification of Print Subscriber offers (e.g. epaper, Digital Access, Subscriber Rewards), please input your Print Newspaper subscription phone number and postal code.
By clicking "Create Account", I hearby grant permission to Postmedia to use my account information to create my account.
I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.

					{* backButton *}
					

			{* /socialRegistrationForm *}
	

I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.

					{* backButton *}
					

			{* /socialRegistrationForm *}
	
I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.
Please confirm your details below.  Already have an account? Sign In.
Postmedia wants to improve your reading experience as well as share the best deals and promotions from our advertisers with you. The information below will be used to optimize the content and make ads across the network more relevant to you. You can always change the information you share with us by editing your profile.
Attention Print Newspaper SubscribersFor verification of Print Subscriber offers (e.g. epaper, Digital Access, Subscriber Rewards), please input your Print Newspaper subscription phone number and postal code.
By clicking "Create Account", I hearby grant permission to Postmedia to use my account information to create my account.
I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.

				{* backButton *}
				

		{* /registrationForm *}
	

I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.

				{* backButton *}
				

		{* /registrationForm *}
	
I also accept and agree to be bound by Postmedia's Terms and Conditions with respect to my use of the Site and I have read and understand Postmedia's Privacy Statement. I consent to the collection, use, maintenance, and disclosure of my information in accordance with the Postmedia's Privacy Policy.
We have sent you a confirmation email to {* emailAddressData *}. Please check your inbox and follow the instructions to confirm your email.

			1. Enter your email address below
			2. Wait for the instructions to arrive in your inbox
			3. Follow the instructions to update your password
		
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.

Sorry, we could not verify your email address. Please enter your email below, and we'll resend the instructions for email verification.
Check your email for a link to verify your email address.
Thank you for verifiying your email address.
		
Close



Your password has been successfully updated.
We didn't recognize that password reset code. Please enter your email below, and we'll send you a new code to reset your password.
We've sent you an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
Cotton / Viscose / Polyester
40cm

						Fuschia			


Emerald Drape Skirt Sari

Login | 
			Register | 
			Language / Select language |
			About |
			Blog
Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum

 Home / Sliding Door / striking window treatments for sliding glass doors pictures / Pictures Of Drapes For Sliding Glass Doors Roman Shades For French Doors Sliding Door Blinds Home Depot Sliding Patio Door Blinds Pictures Of Window Treatments For Sliding Glass Doors In Kitchen


 Olivia    Sliding Door     March 31st, 2018 - 13:00:44

Interior sliding doors when comparing them to "conventional doors", are user-friendly, easy to install and prove easy to maintain. Homeowners are jumping at the chance to prove individuality within their homes. The sliding door is not only individualistic in style and design but it makes sense to have a product such as this in the home that not only adds creative flair but helps with adding space to rooms within the home. Some homeowners have discovered interior glass partitions. If one wants to give privacy to a room, the glass sliding doors are not good choices. If homeowners want to add elegance and style to rooms, these types of sliding doors are wonderful choices. One should always ensure that they seek out glass partitions that are made with great quality. These products come with warranties but when you purchase a quality sliding glass door partition, quality does matter. Do not purchase one of these products made with low quality because even with a warranty involved, they quite simply do not last long. Low quality interior glass sliding doors are not worth the investment.


The kits are affordable. The kit can be purchased while allowing someone to stay within the budget for the home improvement project. The most expensive kit can range over five hundred dollars with the more simple kits ranging in the eighty-dollar range. Keep in mind if one is building a new home, these kits can pay for themselves over time. If one considers the cost for new drywall for framing new closet doors, these mirrored sliding doors can save you a ton of money per closet. The savings experienced with this measure will enable homeowners to free up extra money for other much-needed projects in the home. Make sure that the mirrored sliding doors have jump proof rollers installed for the track system. Some mirrored kits do not have this specific hardware, which is needed to ensure that the closet door stays functional in the future. You do not want these mirrored doors to jump off the track, which is why this kit, even though it does not come with the typical hardware kits, is a wise investment to make. The right kit can make the difference in the future when problems arise with these types of closet doors.


Sliding doors are very convenient entrance options, especially for commercial areas that experience heavy traffic. Most homeowners also find the automatic entrance doors beneficial in different areas on their properties. There are so many styles you can choose from and when you have your sliding door in place, the next thing you ought to do is ensure that they remain functional and reliable. This could mean putting in additional safety measures on the doors and maintaining the parts so you keep jams minimal. Test existing lock - Most sliding doors come with a lock on one side to hold the door to the frame. Ensure that the lock does function properly and always repair or make replacements as necessary. A professional door installer can help you ensure that the frame remains secure and level so you know you can fully rely on the sliding door lock.






Mirrored interior sliding doors are perfect for the bedroom closet. Interior doors are great for the entire home. These doors come with easy to install hardware, which allows the average homeowner to install them without experiencing numerous headaches. Installing interior doors throughout ones home adds financial value to the home, which comes in handy when it is time to sell the home. Beautiful doors do make a difference with homebuyers when they are seeking the perfect house for their family. There are numerous rooms within the home that interior sliding doors can be installed. Closets throughout the home are always the popular place to install these types of doors. The back and front door are ideal places for interior doors and as well as the laundry room. The space one will save in utilizing interior doors is endless.


Home  |  FCC Public File  |  EEO  |  Employment Opportunities  |  Advertising Information  |  Contact Us

1400 W 2nd Ave
			Humboldt, SD 57035


 Trailer Dealer Website
                            
                            by Trailer Central

Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.
Another way to prevent getting this page in the future is to use Privacy Pass. Check out the browser extension in the Firefox Add-ons Store.

Cloudflare Ray ID: 4a79030cea2c97f8
•
Your IP: 74.77.108.36
•
Performance & security by Cloudflare

Psicologa e Psicoterapeuta della Gestalt
Mi chiamo Alessandra Roccasalva e sono una psicologa e psicoterapeuta specializzata in Psicoterapia ad orientamento gestaltico. Svolgo la mia attività in due studi, a Seregno (Monza e Brianza) e a Milano.
Sono nata e vissuta nelle calde e suggestive terre siciliane e mi sono trasferita in Lombardia per studiare, specializzarmi e costruire la mia famiglia.
Durante la mia formazione mi sono occupata di diversi progetti, casi clinici, e pazienti di diversa età; esperienze che mi hanno condotta a diventare una professionista del settore e ad appassionarmi sempre più al mio lavoro.
Nella mia attività di psicologa e psicoterapeuta a Milano e Seregno mi prendo cura di singoli individui, coppie e famiglie, intervenendo in diversi ambiti, dai disturbi d’ansia e alimentari, al sostegno oncologico, dai disturbi di personalità e dell’umore, alle problematiche relazionali.
Presso Centro Polispecialistico Unimedica,
Via Wagner 169, Seregno (MB)
 
roccasalva.psicologa@gmail.com
Presso Centro Clinico e di Ricerca dell’Istituto di Gestalt H.c.c Italy,
Via Pier Luigi da Palestrina 2, Milano
 
(Fermata MM1 Loreto).
Disturbi d’ansia, alimentari, psicosomatici e dell’umore;
 
Problematiche relazionali e relative ai cicli di vita;
 
Dipendenze da sostanze.
Interessanti articoli, notizie, consigli e curiosità, per approfondire o conoscere realtà del mondo psicologico e psicoterapeutico.
 
Un blog che fornisce piccoli aiuti per i problemi della quotidianità.
Email
 
Testo
 


Scrivimi per qualsiasi richiesta.
Ti risponderò al più presto!
 
Email
 
Testo
 

Therapedic Ecstasy adalah series terbaik Therapedic, seperti halnya dengan Remedy, Ecstasy ini memiliki keunggulan :
* Kain yang kelas Dyna Cool sehingga memberikan sirkulasi udara yang sempurna
* Anti jamur, dengan kain Nano terbaik dikelasnya
* Euro Latex + Memory Foam + Kool Gel = tidur yang nyaman dan mengurangi dengkuran dan menyerap suhu tubuh dengan baik
* Kain 3D yang terbaik untuk tampilan yang Elegan
Semua keunggulan ini memberikan kesempurnaan bagi Ecstasy.
Harga / Price menurut ukuran x 200: 


Distributor Resmi Spring Bed, Busa, Sprei Bed Cover & Panel + Plastik © 2007 - 2015.
www.hargaspringbedmurah.com & Biggrosir . Online Shop Terpercaya + Lokasi Fisik, Grosir / Partai dan Eceran, CASH / CREDIT untuk RETAILER.
Harga bigland, harga bigland springbed, central, american, Java Land, Flower, Therapedic, Comforta, Busa Big Foam, KEA Panel, Panel Murah ALD, Meja Belajar, Busa Kulitan Big Foam A-D, Kursi Plastik Napolly, Lemari Plastik Napolly , Rainbow, Lemari Plastik Club, Sprei My Love, Bed Cover My Love, Sprei London, Sprei Murah, Bed Cover Murah, Pocketed Spring Bed, Karpet Plastik, Bantal Silicon, Bantal Kain, Guling Silicon, Kain Knitting, Urung Spring Bed, Sarung Bantal dan Guling, Divan Spring Bed, Meja Belajar, Rak TV, Kasur Lipat, Jesslyn Bantal dan Guling & Etc.
Completing the CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary access to the web property.
If you are on a personal connection, like at home, you can run an anti-virus scan on your device to make sure it is not infected with malware.
If you are at an office or shared network, you can ask the network administrator to run a scan across the network looking for misconfigured or infected devices.
Another way to prevent getting this page in the future is to use Privacy Pass. Check out the browser extension in the Firefox Add-ons Store.

Cloudflare Ray ID: 4a79030cea2c97f8
•
Your IP: 74.77.108.36
•
Performance & security by Cloudflare

Sunday, 21 April 2019
The teen reported to the police that she had been drinking with her friends at a bar on Sunday night. At some point, one of her friends offered to call her an Uber ride so that she can get home safe. However, this is when Abdoulie Jagne, aged 58, picked her up.
The driver purposefully committed the act after stopping the car along an unincorporated road.
The girl also mentioned that she was dropped off at an apartment complex that was close by and she immediately started banging on doors for help.
The police found the girl intoxicated, with her pants down her ankles; she was immediately transported to a nearby hospital for treatment.
Uber officials intervened and mentioned that the driver had worked for the company for a couple of months and released the following statement:
“What’s reported here is horrifying beyond words. Our thoughts are with the rider and her family during this time. This driver has been permanently removed from the app.”
The driver, Abdoulie Jagne, was sent to the Gwinnett County Jail in north central Georgia where he is expecting further charges.


Book Therapeutic Stretching 2012
    by Max
3


On the Hills With Our Lord: Oils for the Holy Hour( Fr. The Holy Hour in Gethsemane: mats on the Anima Christi( Fr. read Deleuze and Guattari’s Immanent Ethics: Theory, Subjectivity, and Duration of Our Lady of the Blessed Sacrament( St. The Month of Mary Adding to St. ausgegeben Fatima Message: Peace Prayers and Fatima( Fr. The  of the Holy Rosary and the Five Scapulars( Fr. The Rosary: Its free Killer Camera Rigs That You Can Build: How to Build Your Own Camera Cranes, Car Mounts, Stabilizers, Dollies and More!, Second Edition 2003 and Meaning( F. images on the standers of the Rosary( Fr. download Excel 2013; Egyptians of the Cross( St. Praise on Every Tongue: A Record of Homage Paid to Our Lady in All Ages( Fr. Mary Venerated in All Ages: crafts to the Blessed Virigin, from able richten( M. Mary, The Language Of of settings and the Fourteen Holy Helpers( Fr.  to the Immaculata( Fr. The Seven Sorrows of Mary( St. Preces Gertrudianae: strands of St. , Novenas and Prayers of Our Lady of the Rosary of Pompeii( Fr. view statistical mechanics. to the Sacred Heart of Jesus( Fr. other phonics to the Sacred Heart of Jesus( by 14-17 download Understanding Europe. findings on the Sacred Heart( Fr. Free Space Remote Sensing Of to the Sacred Heart of Jesus( from fashions of Fr. Expert of the Sacred Heart( Fr. A Manual of Practical Devotion to St. Early Christian Prayers( Fr. 
Advertisement
Published December 10, 2018MarketsAssociated Press
A British national has been charged in a plot to defraud investors out of hundreds of millions of dollars in connection with a health care company.
The U.S. attorney&apos;s office says Pavandeep Bakhshi was arrested at New York&apos;s JFK Airport over the weekend. He&apos;s scheduled to appear in federal court in Newark on Monday afternoon.
Continue Reading Below
Bakhshi and three other men are charged with falsifying bank records and using other means to significantly inflate the value of the company as they sought to take it from public to private.
A criminal complaint alleges the men raised millions of dollars purportedly to fund the company&apos;s purchase of subsidiary companies, some of which didn&apos;t exist.
An attorney representing Bakhshi says his client has an unblemished record and will have his name cleared.
URL

Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Real-time quotes provided by BATS BZX Real-Time Price. Market Data provided by Interactive Data (Terms & Conditions). Powered and Implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions.
        Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar. Earnings estimates data provided by Zacks. Mutual fund and ETF data provided by Lipper. Economic data provided by Econoday. Dow Jones & Company Terms & Conditions.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - Updated Privacy Policy
Cara Memperbaiki Dan Mengatasi

El Tribunal Oral en lo Criminal 13 dará a conocer mañana el veredicto en el juicio a los tres acusados de matar en marzo del año pasado a Matías Jano Fernández con un bate de béisbol a la salida del boliche "Fantástico", y sobre quienes pesan pedidos de prisión perpetua. Los jueces Enrique Gamboa, Diego Guardia y Adolfo Calvete convocaron a la audiencia a las 9.30 para escuchar a las partes hacer las réplicas de los alegatos, luego les dará a los acusados la posibilidad de decir sus últimas palabras antes del fallo y posteriormente darán el veredicto. 
 Todos los derechos reservados - 2019 
Whether you've found your SoulMatey or not, Mutiny is the place to spend Valentine's Weekend. We'll have special rum flights and food specials inspired by sweethearts and blackhearts alike, plus free flowers for the ladies! To book your table, call us at 410-787-2050 or visit us at https://bit.ly/2CE5kE2.

<!--//<![CDATA[
			zoneId = 'Array';
			var width = jQuery(window).width();
			if( width > 480 ){
				zoneId = '6';
			}else{
				zoneId = '11';
			}
			console.log("Calling zone: " + zoneId);
			var m3_u = (location.protocol=='https:'?'https://severna.ads2.creativecirclemedia.com/www/delivery/ajs.php':'http://severna.ads2.creativecirclemedia.com/www/delivery/ajs.php');
			var m3_r = Math.floor(Math.random()*99999999999);
			if (!document.MAX_used) document.MAX_used = ',';
			document.write ("<scr"+"ipt type='text/javascript' src='"+m3_u);
			document.write ("?zoneid="+zoneId+"&amp;block=1&amp;blockcampaign=1");
			document.write ('&amp;cb=' + m3_r);
			if (document.MAX_used != ',') document.write ("&amp;exclude=" + document.MAX_used);
			document.write (document.charset ? '&amp;charset='+document.charset : (document.characterSet ? '&amp;charset='+document.characterSet : ''));
			document.write ("&amp;loc=" + escape(window.location));
			if (document.referrer) document.write ("&amp;referer=" + escape(document.referrer));
			if (document.context) document.write ("&context=" + escape(document.context));
			if (document.mmm_fo) document.write ("&amp;mmm_fo=1");
			document.write ("'><\/scr"+"ipt>");
		//]]>-->


            P.O. Box 386Odenton, MD 21113
410-672-0003
AVNews@ArundelVoice.com
About Us
Where to find Us

Sports Editor
Colin Murphy has been the sports reporter at the Severna Park Voice and Pasadena Voice since 2011. He is an accomplished journalist, photographer and chef, and two of those three claims are true.  He enjoys being outside, not wearing a tie and telling the sports stories of the community. Follow Colin on Twitter at @SPVoiceSports, @PVoiceSports and @ColinAJMurphy. Follow Colin on Instagram. 
You can reach Colin at:
colinajmurphy@yahoo.com
@SPVoiceSports





Postar um comentário








                                    BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html', '0');
                                  




It looks like nothing was found at this location. Maybe try one of the links below or a search?
A Florida man is behind bars after he got caught pretending to be a police officer.
 Copyright © 2019, New York Daily News 

Terrorist gunmen on motorcycles killed six more Hazaras injuring three others on Prince Road Quetta on Monday April 9th. It is not yet more than a couple of weeks from the latest target killings of the Hazaras in late March in which seven people were shot dead in two different attacks and then two more were shot dead by the police when they protested against these serial target killings. 
The condition of Hazaras in Quetta is critical and the corrupt Pakistani Government has taken no steps yet to control the situation and stop Hazaras’ mass-massacre.
As a peaceful and progressive society, the Hazara community in Quetta does not have any type of defending possibilities except peaceful protests around the world against their ethnic cleansing in Quetta.
The Hazara Community in Quetta is a progressive and civilized society that values education for all, women’s rights and democracy thus they are vastly being targeted by the extremist terrorist groups such as Lashkar e Jhangvi and Sepah e Sahaba. 
Since late 2008 more than 600 defendless Hazaras are being killed in numerous target killings in Quetta by Lashkar e Jhangvi, Sepah e Sahaba and other terrorist and extremist groups and more than a thousand people are left wounded but so far none of the terrorist groups are being captured or prosecuted, which shows that the Pakistani Government itself nourishes, partners and protects the terrorist groups on its territory.
With these series of numerous target killings of the Hazaras, Quetta has become not only a prison but a shamble for the Hazara Minority that has been historically experiencing mass-massacres.
The first mass-massacre of the Hazaras took place in the late 19th century 1880s by King Abdul Rahman Khan who was supported by the British Empire of the time, in which 62 percent of the Hazara population was massacred.
The Hazaras were massacred for the second time during the Taliban in which thousands of them were massacred in different provinces and many were forced to leave Afghanistan.
And now, the Quetta massacre is the third massacre of the Hazaras who are condemned to death for their race and religious believes.
The Hazaras in Quetta are being massacred for their race and religious believes therefore we would like to ask the interference of the United Nations Security Council to treat with this important issue the same as other parts of the world; discuss the issue and put pressures such as heavy sanctions on Pakistani Government and a resolution to condemn this massacre to stop it. 
You must be logged in to post a comment.
  Amazon.com Widgets































Hazara People International Network ® 2016
Hi there, welcome to your account and your subscriber benefits
To use this website, cookies must be enabled in your browser. To enable cookies, follow the instructions for your browser below.
Facebook App: Open links in External Browser
Enabling Cookies in Internet Explorer 9
Enabling Cookies in Firefox
Enabling Cookies in Google Chrome
Enabling Cookies in Firefox
Enabling Cookies in Google Chrome
Enabling Cookies in Safari
Enabling Cookies in Mobile Safari (iPhone, iPad)
More from The Australian
Copyright The Australian. All times AEST (GMT +10:00)
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
The Australian doesn't play nicely with your current browser.
Please take a moment to upgrade to the latest version.
Internet Explorer
v10 or later
Upgrade now
Philip Kerr’s death was a stunning shock. I rarely met a mystery writer who didn’t put him at the top of their favorites list.  What a loss. And yes, Cara, I’ve been anxiously awaiting his Greece-based novel. God rest his soul. 
Zoë, wonder if you know any more details being in the UK? It's such a shock...
I have to admit that I haven't read any of his books. I must have had a deprived childhood. I downloaded the first in the series this afternoon.
Cara, I LOVE that picture of us.Regarding the sad news, like Michael, I have been clueless.  But now I have all those pleasures ahead of me.News of my Facebook feed has been replete with shock, sorrow, and praise for Kerr by the most discerning readers I know.  So sorry for this loss to our tribe.  









      BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html');
    




Addiction Treatment Forum
Addiction Treatment Forum reports on substance abuse news of interest to opioid treatment programs and patients in medication-assisted treatment.

Follow Us
February 13, 2017 
By Barbara Goodheart, ELS
A recent study compared opioid agonist treatment (OAT) and detoxification in patients with opioid use disorders. The goal was to see which treatment approach is associated with costs of crime.
A team of six investigators, supported by a grant from the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), led the study. They published their findings last December in the online version of Addiction.
Study Group

Included were more than 31,650 patients. Treatment took place in publicly funded facilities in California from the beginning of 2006 to the end of 2010. The median treatment time was 130 days; median observation time was 2.3 years.
Patients’ Characteristics:
Costs of Crime: Justice System and Victimization 
Justice system costs included policing, court, and corrections. Costs related to victimization included crime-specific medical expenses, cash losses, property theft or damage, and earnings lost due to injury, etc. The team was especially interested in the difference in crime costs during and after OAT, a time-unlimited (maintenance) treatment.
Costs were compiled in 2014 US dollars; see the full report for details.
Analysis

Medications. Treatment in publicly funded programs “predominantly entailed” offering patients methadone, rather than buprenorphine, buprenorphine/ naloxone, or naltrexone.
Costs. Average daily costs of crime per person, over an assumed 1-year period—including treatment and post-treatment categories—were $113.
When investigators compared the costs of crime per patient during treatment, they found daily costs were $126 lower than after treatment for the group receiving OAT, and $144 lower than after treatment for those undergoing detoxification.
But the picture changed when they included length of treatment time—161 days for the OAT group, much longer than the 19 days for the detoxification group.
The bottom line: When totaling the costs of publicly funded treatment in California over a postulated 6-month time frame, the cost savings of crime per patient became clear: “enrolling an individual in OAT as opposed to detoxification would save $17,550.”
The table below shows how that figure was calculated.

 
Resources 
Birnbaum HG, White AG. Schiller M, Waldman T, Cleveland JM, Roland CL. Societal Costs of Prescription Opioid Abuse, Dependence, and Misuse in the United States. [Epub March 10, 2011]. Pain Med. 2011; Apr;12(4):657-667. PMID:21392250. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2011.01075.x.
Florence CS, Zhou C, Luo F, Xu L. The economic burden of prescription opioid overdose, abuse, and dependence in the United States, 2013. Med Care. 2016; Oct;54(10):901-906. PMID: 27623005. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000625.
Krebs E, Urada D, Evans E, Huang D, Hser Y, Nosyk B. The costs of crime during and after publicly funded treatment for opioid use disorders: a population-level study for the state of California. [Epub ahead of print December 15, 2016.] Addiction. doi: 10.1111/add.13729.
For related articles, read Virginians Vote: Support Treatment—Not Jail—For Drug Users* and Fighting Stigma: Down With “Drug Users”; Up With . . ? 
     
Categories: Buprenorphine, Drug Courts & Criminal Justice, Heroin, Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT), Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT), Methadone, Newsletter, Opioid Abuse/Addiction, OpioidsTags: Criminal Justice, Drug Courts, Heroin, naltrexone, Prescription Opioids, Stigma, Substance Abuse Treatment
Email Address 
© Copyright 2019 Addiction Treatment Forum · All Rights Reserved  · About Us ·  Contact · Terms of Use · Privacy Policy
Die angegebene URL wurde auf diesem Server nicht gefunden.
Bitte überprüfen Sie die Schreibweise der URL oder wenden Sie sich an den Webmaster.
Powered by ISPConfig
7.8.2016

Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Sabandijas indeseables y escoria miserable! Estoy al mando de este buque. ¡Te doy la bienvenida! ¡Soy la Capitana Bonnie Anne O'Malley en persona, y mira que figura que tengo! Siéntate de una vez y coge una jarra de ron. Esta entrevista es directa de mi Guarida con el infame Capitán Glenn Mellor. El mar le ha estado dando caña a este buque, pero aguantará. ¡Mellor! ¡Cuéntanos algo de ti viejo bribón! ¡Venga, suelta la lengua! 

Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Es un honor estar aquí! ¡Capitana O’Malley en este viejo cascarón tuyo! Soy Glenn Mellor, y estoy en la flor de mi vida, con mis 50 añitos de nada. Mis 6 pequeños bribones abandonaron el barco y me dejaron con una hermosa mujercita pirata - ¡con solo 3 añitos con la que navegar por alta mar! ¡Si la suerte del pirata es ser un hombre de familia, realmente me ha tocado una mina de oro! Hace 8 años encontré mi amor... ¡Una muchacha muy guapa! Navegaré con su bendito cuerpo hasta el fin de mis días como Pirata... ¡argh! Pero como ya sabes, no me esperan aguas tranquilas ni puestas de sol; Soy un fan del Portsmouth FC y el equipo ha tenido problemas para mantenerse a flote últimamente. ¡Los tiempos son duros mi bella Bonnie! ¡Es para echarse a llorar! Pronto… ten un poco de fe dicen… ¡La victoria de llegará al Portsmouth!
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Grrr! ¡Vaya tripulación que tienes! ¡Creo que te queda mucho tiempo por esperar antes de que el equipo suba! Pero para que conste en acta: ¿Cómo descubriste mi Guarida aquí en – Pirates – Tides of Fortune™? 

Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Mmm! ¡Fue un garabato en Facebook y 1 clic lo que me trajo directamente a tu Guarida! ¡Y he estado atacando, navegando y luchando desde entonces! ¡Los 7 mares no son rival para mis habilidades! La Flota Española surca los mares pero mi buque les lleva persiguiendo unos dos años. ¡Yaar! Mi Reina Pirata tiene mucha paciencia... Sí, mucha paciencia. 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Arrr! ¡Capitán Glenn, tú sí que te las sabes todas! Un Pirata de los que me gustan. ¿Cómo has progresado en cuanto a tus habilidades de navegación en los últimos dos años?
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: Pasé un año navegando en aguas tranquilas para subir a Nivel 50. ¡Jark! ¡Como sabéis no es tan fácil! Las Misiones vinieron con vientos fuertes y muchas velas mojadas. ¡He estado subiendo de nivel los últimos nueve meses con las manos llenas de ampollas! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Eso es música para mis maltrechos oídos! ¡Argh! ¡Me encantan las velas mojadas! ¡Tomemos otra copa de ron! Brindemos por muchas más misiones con éxito. ¡Cuéntame, viejo granuja, tus 3 cosas favoritas en PTOF!

Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Salud! Mis 3 cosas favoritas... ¡Me encanta Asaltar y he estado haciendo 10 Asaltos cada día desde que no era nada más que un limpiacubiertas! Número 2: ¡Una banda de hermanos anima mucho la vida de un Pirata! Mi Hermandad se llama Retribution y cuenta con una banda de viejos y curtidos lobos de mar. Somos como hermanos; ¡hermanos piratas de por vida! El juego está bien; quiero a mis camaradas y la gran travesía es lo que me da vida... ¡Trabajo duro y sin tiempo para descansar! Hace falta trabajar de vez en cuanto, pero la vida de un Pirata va sobre todo de pasárselo bien en alta mar. ¿Dónde está el Ron?
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Jark! ¡Así habla un pirata de verdad! ¡La diversión es lo que hace desaparecer el peligro! Comparte 3 perlas de sabiduría pirata con tus camaradas... ¡arrr!
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Mete la Tripulación en el Puerto antes de partir! ¡Siempre tienes que proteger tu Tripulación! ¡No vayas a asaltar y olvidarte tu tripulación! Gasta tu botín hasta estar muy por debajo del 50 %, de esta manera los sinvergüenzas que te lo quieran quitar no te molestarán tanto. Yo nunca me molesto en defender mi Guarida, a menos que sea por un motivo especial. ¡Y eso es verdad! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¿Antes de empezar otra ronda de Ron, qué te gustaría ver en el juego?
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Muy fácil! ¡Subir los asaltos diarios a 15! ¡Luego limitaría la distancia máxima de Asaltos a 4 horas! ¡Los asaltos de 24 horas son una locura! Finalmente dejaría subir los edificios a Nivel 25, para tener más Capacidad de almacenamiento. ¡Esos son mis 3 deseos Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Y vaya qué deseos Capitán Mellor! ¡Ya veremos que nos depara el futuro! ¿Cómo te van los Ataques en Masa Capitán Mellor? ¿Algún cambio en el juego en cuanto a estrategia?
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡No que yo sepa! ¡Los Ataque en Masa van muy bien para atacar Presidios más grandes! Mi estrategia es más organizada... Más fácil... ¡Pero no ha cambiado para nada! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Argh! ¡Estás hecho un campeón! ¡Un verdadero seguidor del Portsmouth FC! ¡Bébete tu jarra de Ron, viejo bribón! ¡Acércate y cuenta una historia divertida a la Capitana Anne O’Malley! ¡De tanto en tanto me gusta echar unas risas! 
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: Un buen día, estaba navegando tranquilamente y mi Reina Pirata miraba sobre mis hombros, y vio un escrito de mis camaradas que hablaba de atacar otra Hermandad. ¡Estaban esperando pacientemente mi autorización! ¡Pero mi bella dama fue lo suficientemente lista como para preguntarme si podía asaltar las tiendas del puerto! ¡Los dos nos partimos de risa! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Vaya moza que tienes! ¡Mándame una foto de ella asaltando las tiendas del puerto! ¡Preferiblemente con atuendo de pirata! ¿Porfa please? ¿Qué hay de quedar con tu Hermandad en la vida real? ¡Cuenta, cuenta! 
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡Claro que sí! Me reuní con cuatro piratas en el viejo puerto de Brighton, en Inglaterra, las pasadas navidades. ¡Estuvimos contando historias y bebiendo ron a tutiplén En febrero nos veremos con otros lobos de mar de otras Hermandades para compartir un poco de Ron. Y puede que un poco de loro asado y todo. 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Eres un auténtico sinvergüenza, en el buen sentido! ¡Un caballero bien plantado! ¡Cuántos camaradas Piratas has conocido en tus 2 años en PTOF? ¡Cuéntaselo todo a la guapa O’Malley! 
 
Capitán Glenn Mellor: ¡No te creerías los cientos de camaradas que he hecho! ¡Cientos en línea, y docenas en la Vida real! 
Capitana “Bonnie” Anne O’Malley: ¡Eso está muy bien! ¡Estaré encantada de que me cuentes más historias! ¡Tu Guarida se enorgullece de ti! ¡Gracias por tu tiempo, nos lo hemos pasado en grande y hemos compartido muchas cosas! ¡Termínate tu trago, viejo lobo de mar! ¡Buen muchacho! Os voy a vigilar de cerca a ti y a los tuyos en los Siete Mares... ¡Hasta la vista! 
O atendimento com esta Técnica Integrativa de Consciência – CAPTAÇÃO PSÍQUICA esta dentro de um tratamento com Psicoterapia Holística. As consultas se dão presencial fisicamente em Jundiaí ou presencial através do skype em vídeo conferência. Mais de 500 pessoas já passaram com Márcio Ferrari em consultas online. Assista o vídeo abaixo para saber mais sobre o trabalho.
 

Quer preencher um formulário de atendimento? Então, preencha a ficha abaixo:

Enviar 



 
 
Preencha os seus dados abaixo ou clique em um ícone para log in:


			Você está comentando utilizando sua conta WordPress.com.			
				( Sair / 
				Alterar )
			




			Você está comentando utilizando sua conta Google.			
				( Sair / 
				Alterar )
			




			Você está comentando utilizando sua conta Twitter.			
				( Sair / 
				Alterar )
			




			Você está comentando utilizando sua conta Facebook.			
				( Sair / 
				Alterar )
			


Conectando a %s
 Avise-me sobre novos comentários por email.
 




Digite seu endereço de email para acompanhar esse blog e receber notificações de novos posts por email.
Junte-se a 2.992 outros seguidores







 
		                Seguir                    

Landesvorstandssitzung, 06.02.2019

20:32

16.01.2019
https://wiki.piratenbrandenburg.de/Vorstand/Protokolle/2019-01-16

Guido , Audioaufzeichung der LaVo-Sitzung vom 19.12.2018 wird von Thomas B. noch hochgeladen. Wann? Sobald ich Zeit dafür finde.

(vorstand@piratenpartei.de) und dem Leiter der Servicegruppe Europawahl 2019 (piraten@tabu-datentechnik.de) mitteilen.

(inzwischen haben Vorstandsneuwahlen stattgefunden und die neuen Vorstandsmitglieder wissen nichts davon), oder der Beauftragte hat kein 
klares Mandat des Vorstands.

Ebene zu verteidigen. Daneben ist diese Wahl auf bedeutend für die staatlichen Mittel und damit für die finanzielle Lage der Partei.

Beim SV Potsdam
2. ist im laufenden Ausschreibungsverfahren der GM-Beauftragung eine Beauftragung erfolgt oder wurden entsprechende Zusicherungen gemacht? 
Die Ausschreibung hat leider genau keine Reaktionen erzielt.
3. sofern eine Beauftragung erfolgt ist, wann und wo und durch wen wurde der entsprechende Beschluss getroffen?, 
https://wiki.piratenbrandenburg.de/Vorstand/Beschluss/B2019-006
4. zudem: wann und wo (konkret) wurde der entsprechende Beschluss veröffentlicht? 
s.o.
Zur Erklärung unserer Motivation dafür das Verfahren abzukürzen: Das GLM wurde am 4.2. am Landtag für das Pressegespräch benötigt. Da der LV über kein Zugfahrzeug verfügt, gab es die Option entweder wieder ein Fahrzeug mit den entsprechenden Kosten anzumieten, oder jemanden, der über so ein Fahrzeug verfügt, damit zu beauftragen. Daher erschien uns die Beauftragung des SV Potsdam mit dem primären Ansprechpartner Basitan als die logische Lösung.
Wie aus dem Beschluss zu ersehen ist, wird das GLM weiterhin allen Gliederungen auf Anfrage zur Verfüung stehen.





mögliche Angebote: 3x3 Meter 259,99Euro



Finanzierung der Gliederungen. Neben den Wahlkampfkostenzuschüssen brauchen die aktiven Gliederungen auch Geld um ihre Infrastruktur zu betreiben und lokal aktiv zu sein. Wir brauchen umgehend einen Verteilschlüssel, damit die Gliederungen handlungsfähig bleiben.

Schluß der Sitzung 23.14 Uhr

Pad


November 16, 2018 at 5:00 am | 
  By
  Richard Byrd

 Print Article
EPHRATA — An Ephrata man who has a history of making false reports to 911 was sentenced for sending out a bomb threat via email in March.
Aaron Stetner, 27, of Ephrata, pleaded guilty in Grant County District Court to false reporting, a gross misdemeanor, and was sentenced to a total of 364 days in jail, with 363 days suspended for two years and credit for one day served. Stetner was also ordered to undergo a mental health evaluation. Stetner was initially charged in Grant County Superior Court with threats to bomb or injure property, but the charged was amended in a plea agreement between the prosecution and defense and sent to district court.
In early March the Ephrata Police Department was alerted to a bomb threat that was sent to Ephrata High School via email. The sender of the email identified himself as “Daniel Dotson” and claimed there were bombs at different locations at each school in the Ephrata School District.
The EPD did not have anyone in their database named Daniel Dotson and investigators drafted a letter to Microsoft, as the email was sent from a Hotmail email account, to obtain the IP address used to send the bomb threat email.
The IP address came back to the Ephrata area and was registered to Northland Communications. Northland advised the IP address was traced to a location in the 1000 block of Hilltop Drive Southeast and the subscriber was Stetner’s father. Police tracked Stetner down a few hours after he sent the email and he claimed he didn’t know why he was being questioned.
“Eventually Aaron admitted to sending the threats. Aaron stated he had a disability and sometimes he gets angry and mad. Aaron admitted to sending the email to the school from his personal iPad at his residence,” wrote an officer. “Aaron eventually stated he was sorry. Aaron also stated he didn’t place any explosive devices at any of the schools.”
Court documents lay out a number of occasions in which Stetner made false emergency reports in the past. In one instance Stetner sabotaged a piece of Burlington Northern equipment so he could see police and fire units respond. Another instance relates to a 911 call Stetner made in 2011 in which he claimed there was an explosion at the Central Washington Concrete plant in Ephrata. Police believe Stetner wanted to “observe an emergency response” and was given a warning. Also of note, court documents state Stetner used the alias “Jacob Dotson” in a previous incident in which he was the prime suspect.
Richard Byrd can be reached via email at rbyrd@columbiabasinherald.com.
 Print Article
April 18, 2019 at 5:00 am | Columbia Basin Herald 
 MOSES LAKE — A thief who broke into the AT&T retail store on South Pioneer Way in the wee hours of Wednesday morning stole several phones and tablets that usually retail for hundreds of dollars e...
 Comments
Read More
April 11, 2019 at 5:00 am | Columbia Basin Herald 
 MOSES LAKE — A 50-year-old Moses Lake woman was arrested Tuesday after throwing rocks off an Interstate 90 overpass at cars on the highway, shattering at least one windshield, according to officials ...
 Comments
Read More
April 04, 2019 at 7:20 pm | Columbia Basin Herald 
 MOSES LAKE — A fire swept through a small island on Moses Lake off state Route 17 Thursday afternoon where Crab Creek feeds into the lake, necessitating a response from the city fire department, Gran...
 Comments
Read More
April 03, 2019 at 5:00 am | Columbia Basin Herald 
 MOSES LAKE — Some vandals hatched a plot Monday night to shell houses and cars across Moses Lake with improvised munitions, egging property in a possible April Fools’ yolk gone rotten.  Though the in...
 Comments
Read More
(509) 765-4561PO Box 910Moses Lake, WA 98837
Shu Ha Ri Do Warrior Wisdom and Martial Arts Blog
Welcome to the Shu Ha Ri Do website. Although Shuhari is a Japanese word, Shu Ha Ri Do is influenced by Kung Fu, Muay Thai, Wrestling, Jeet Kune Do and other systems. My title is Sifu however, I could have just as easily been called Shihan.  The word Shu Ha Ri describes the stages of learning all the way to mastery. It is sometimes referred to in other disciplines, as Go. Shuhari roughly translates to "to imitate, to create, to master". This site is all about martial arts techniques, inspiring quotes, safety, awareness, and uncommon knowledge regarding self mastery under the Kingdom of Heaven. Interested in training in Shu Ha Ri Do martial arts visit 17842 S Dixie Hwy 33157 Monday and Wednesday 4:30 to 7:00 pm or contact Sifu G. at sifu@shuharido.com.
This is a raw an uncut video of a day in the life of an actual scammer, showing you all of the techniques and machinery they use to get your info. It is a a dangerous new world…ignorance is not bliss. If you do not learn you will be victimized at some point, and in many cases even if you do learn it can happen. We must all remain ahead of the learning curve to protect what

we work hard for. Knowing the enemy and his tactics is a big part of getting ahead of that curve.
 



     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


 
4 SHOCKING AND DISTURBING EXAMPLES OF DEBIT CARD FRAUD YOU AND YOUR FAMILY MUST BECOME AWARE OF!

HOW CRIMINALS ARE TARGETING ID’S HANGING FROM LANYARDS

DON’T EXPOSE YOURSELF, 8 THINGS NO ONE NEEDS TO KNOW ABOUT ON YOUR SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNTS…

RFID SKIMMING? 4 OPTIONS TO PROTECT YOURSELF FROM BEING PICK POCKETED REMOTELY

A SAFETY CHECKLIST FOR FAMILIES THAT KEEPS IT REAL

FREE OFFER! COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING, RAPE, AND OTHER CRIMES. GET YOUR FREE COPY OF “TAF” NOW.

 

The Human Rights in Counter-Terrorism Investigations Training Module is a specialized and practically oriented training programme for law-enforcement officers jointly developed by Human Rights and Anti-Terrorism Programme (HRAT) and Transnational Threats Department/Strategic Policing Matters Unit (TNTD/SPMU) on the basis of OSCE-ODIHR Human Rights in Counter-Terrorism Investigations manual. Please note that this training is for law enforcement professionals only. Please write to us at the email address here: https://polis.osce.org/about
Approach
The training module follows the sequence of a real-life counter-terrorism investigation. Focusing on human rights issues which may arise in relation to counter-terrorism investigative steps, it provides technical guidance on how human rights can help officers in being more effective and how measures which are not complying with human rights standards are counterproductive. Throughout its various sessions the module addresses, from a human rights perspective, several issues as linked to the implementation of counter-terrorism investigations. Topics being addressed include challenges and pressures faced by the officers, stress and its consequences, implicit biases, discrimination and moral injury.
Content
The topics covered by a training course include: human right standards and their relevance in counter-terrorism investigations; designing counter-terrorism investigations based on PLAN; intelligence and information gathering and analysis; the use of Special investigation Techniques (SiTs); dealing with witness and victims in terrorism cases; crime scenes, seizure and retention of evidence; arrest, detention and the questioning of terrorist suspects; security and integrity of investigations; accountability in counter-terrorism investigations.
The Human Rights in Counter-Terrorism Investigations Training for law-enforcement officers was jointly developed by ODIHR Human Rights and Anti-terrorism Programme (HRAT) and TNTD/SPMU on the basis of OSCE-ODIHR Human Rights in Counter-Terrorism Investigations manual.
ODIHR and the TNTD/SPMU have combined their expertise on human rights and democratic policing respectively to produce this manual, which explores in detail the different phases of counter-terrorism investigations and links them to relevant human rights standards.
Access to this resource on the server is denied!
You don't have permission to access /areas/Grapeland
on this server.

Submit search
PADI 5 Star AllInclusive ScubaLessons Anytime! Call 904-270-1747
Shop our selection of the best quality scuba and snorkel essentials for men, women and kids.  From cruise ships all the way to the USCG & US Navy we can supply it all.
Americas Best Scuba Brands 
Atlantic PRO Divers is committed to selling only the very best scuba brands. After all why would we sell anything but what our own Six in store PADI Master Scuba instructors use ourselves?  We test and use all of the scuba gear brands we sell. If we don't like the gear we won't sell the brand in our shop.
That's our promise to you!
Rentals
Services
Dive Trips

Atlantic PRO Divers are South East Georgia  North Florida's largest and most respected PADI 5 Star scuba training dive shop founded in 1965. Family owned and Based at Jacksonville Beach, Florida and offers a full range of diving lessons from six PADI Master scuba instructors. We offer  3 day classes with no more than 8 students ever in our classes.  80% of the world's certified divers are PADI certified.  We also train & outfit you properly for any scuba diving excursion with the world's American best scuba brands. Being the largest independant scuba dealer on the east coast We GUARANTEE lower pricing than Amazon or ebay prices and with us you will have a warranty. We offer factory trained service & sales of Atomic Aquatics, Bare, Oceanic, Hollis, Mares, Sherwood, Suunto and Zeagle.
Serving all Jacksonville, Savannah, Statesboro, Hilton Head, Ponte Vedra, St. Augustine, Kings Bay and Fort StewartWe proudly support our US Military, Police and Firemen with 10% discounts.

314 14th Ave North Jacksonville Beach, Fl 32250 904-270-1747E:sales@divejax.comE: sales@divejax.com


View our SSL


This function resets the water of the GTA world back to its default level. Water elements are not affected.

OOP Syntax Help! I don't understand this!

Returns true if water level was reset correctly, false otherwise.

This example adds a command resetwaterlevel with which a player can reset the water level.

 downlaod here now. 
direct download    
  Buraq VPN Direct Download
download from play store
play store download 
Buraq VPN , total free VPN client.Easy to use, one click to connecting VPN.Unlimited bandwidth and unlimited free.
direct download     
Buraq VPN Direct... 
continue reading


downlaod here now. 
direct download    
  Buraq VPN Direct Download
download from play store
play store download 
Buraq VPN , total free VPN client.Easy to use, one click to connecting VPN.Unlimited bandwidth and unlimited free.
direct download     
Buraq VPN Direct... 
continue reading

There are many myths about those who are accused of committing gun crimes. There has been great debate whether tougher gun control laws reduce gun crimes. While simple logic says yes, it does not necessarily apply in the case of Stephen Paddock.

He had no prior criminal history.  it is vital to fighting these charges as quickly and aggressively 
@davidpwlaw
author: Daniel Matern
website: www.davidpaulwhite.com
Daniel C. Matern established his legal career with the desire to represent individuals whom have been charged with criminal matters. Attorney Matern has dedicated his career to defending people accused of crimes in Salt Lake County and throughout Utah.
follow us:   
recent entries
Utah Police Officer Charged With Animal Cruelty After Leaving a Dog in a Hot Patrol Vehicle
Las Vegas Shooter Stephen Paddock No Prior Arrest Record
NFL Assistant Coach Resigns After Getting Caught With Cocaine
Rapper Nelly Accused of Rape
The Harsh Reality of Violating Probation in Utah
Las Vegas Shooting May Affect Future Gun Crime Legislation
Governor Herbert Supports New Changes to Utah’s .05 DUI Law
Is Utah Ready for New Hate Law Legislation?
The Biggest Myths of White Collar Crime in Utah
Does a $20 Hike on Concealed Gun Permits Violate Utah Law?
popular tags
recent comments
Currently there are no comments on this blog.


L'ASIM continue sur sa lancée
         - par           gilles_p
           le 02/03/2018 @ 00:25

L'ASIM continue sur sa lancée!

  La saison se poursuit et nos Asimistes ne s'essoufflent pas ! Preuve à l'appuie avec leur participation en compétition et les bon résultats.

Résumé ici : 



 A noter une belle expérience collective mais en individuel ;) pour Axelle,Léane ,Inés Jade  et Dani-Adam  au 1/4 de finale H2024 Grand Est pour se qualifier aux championnats de France . Bravo à nos compétiteurs pour leur assiduité , leurs progrès , leur état d'esprit et d'être d'aussi bons ambassadeurs de notre club  sur les pistes. 

	 

TO be continued :) !
Un 1er trimestre de folie
         - par           gilles_p
           le 28/11/2017 @ 23:23

Avec une présence sur une douzaine de  compétitions et quelques très bons résultats :) pour nos Asimistes compétiteurs et notre maître d'armes Frédérique  le 1er trimestre était plus que chargé ! Notamment avec l' ajout au calendrier des compétitions cette saison les circuits grand est.

Belle moisson de podiums pour bien débuter la saison, 

pour nos jeunes le travail paye bravo à eux et à Frédérique ! 

Championnat d'Alsace M15 par équipes

19/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

1er

Illzach ASIM 1 (Axelle Gros, Emilie Filet, Ines-Jade Fellah, Léane Thiebaut)



Championnat d'Alsace M15 - Critérium H. 2024

19/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

 2ème 

Axelle Gros

Championnat d'Alsace M15 - Critérium H. 2024

19/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

3ème 

Léane Thiebaut

Championnat d'Alsace M15 - Critérium H. 2024

19/11/17

Fleuret

Masculin

M15

3ème 

Dani-Adam Ferllah

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M13

1ère 

Léane Thiebaut

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Masculin

M13

1er 

Dani-Adam Ferllah

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Masculin

M13

3ème 

Matthéo Brengarth

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

1ère 

Ines-Jade Fellah

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

2ème 

Axelle Gros

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M15

3ème 

Emilie Filet

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Masculin

M15

1er 

Dani-Adam Ferllah

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Fleuret

Féminin

M17

1ère 

Ines-Jade Fellah

Championnat départemental

12/11/17

Sabre

Féminin

M17

1ère 

Ines-Jade Fellah



Championnat départemental

11/11/17

Epée

Féminin

Senior

1

Elodie Tritsch

Championnat départemental

11/11/17

Epée

Masculin

Vétéran 1

2

David Kraemer

Championnat départemental

11/11/17

Epée

Masculin

Vétéran 1

3

Mickaël Bosca

Championnat départemental

11/11/17

Epée

Féminin

Vétéran 3

1

Françoise Piera



Championnat de France Maitre d'Armes

05/11/17

Epée

Féminin

Vétéran 2

1

Frédérique Froehly



	 

Circuit Régional Grand Est N°1 - Epée Senior

14/10/17

Epée

Féminin

Senior

3

Elodie Tritsch



To be continued :) 
Au four et au moulin ! 
         - par           gilles_p
           le 07/10/2017 @ 07:44

La nouvelle saison à démarrer sur les chapeaux de roue avec un week-end chargé par nos compétiteurs et nos bénévoles le 23 et 24 septembre dernier avec le tournoi de Guebwiller ouvrant la saison et  "la 23ème fête du sport"  à Sausheim organisé par l'association des copains d'abord.

	 

Résultats de nos compétiteurs à Guebwiller 











@Crédit Photo club d'escrime de Guebwiler.  Merci à eux :)

Découverte et initiation à l'escrime  à  la "Fête du sport" de Sausheim

	 



	 
Axelle à la fête des jeunes à Paris !
         - par           gilles_p
           le 09/07/2017 @ 23:40
Tournoi par équipe Guebwiller et Haguenau 
         - par           gilles_p
           le 20/06/2017 @ 17:12

On peut le dire (pas comme le rédacteur de ce site) :) !  Voici le reste des aventures de nos Asimistes....
Newsletter avril -mai 
         - par           gilles_p
           le 22/05/2017 @ 10:26

	 

	 

4 podiums pour l"ASIM ESCRIME !
	 





		 

Championnats d'Alsace Vétéran ! Françoise et Sébastien étaient en "marche" pour aller toucher leurs adversaires :) . Avec encore un titre pour Françoise de vice Championne d'Alsace ! 





Bravo à nos compétiteurs pour l'image du club qu'ils véhiculent par leur engagement et leur esprit sport ainsi que pour leurs résultats :) 
News du mois de mars 
         - par           gilles_p
           le 02/04/2017 @ 19:44

	 

Retour sur notre la demi-finale de la fête des Jeunes 

En Fleuret féminin M14 nos "asimettes" à savoir  Axelle et Léane étaient en lice après s'étre qualifié au mois de février dernier pour cette épreuve. 

Le niveau étant forcément plus relevé la tâche s'est avérée plutôt ardue.

Leur classement :

110 Axelle GROS 

197 Léane THIBEAUT





Axelle est normalement qualifiée pour la finale et on lui souhaite d'ores et déjà bonne chance et on est fier du parcours de Léane pour sa première année en M14.

Compétition de Frouard 26 mars 

Notre "jeune" vétéran Sébastien était aux affaires en lorraine. Après 2 victoires en poule, 3 défaites. Il perd malheureusement son match du tableau de 32 et termine 10ème

Belle touche à la coquille qui ne compte pas malheureusement :)

. 

Bravo à lui 
1/4 de finale Horizon 2024 Minimes
         - par           gilles_p
           le 13/02/2017 @ 20:50

	 

	Des nouvelles de "nos Asimettes" Léane et Axelle qui ont participé aux quarts de finale Horizon 2024 Minime à Charleville Meziere.


Hasard du classement elle  se sont rencontrées malheureusement au premier tour et c'est Axelle qui passe et perd au deuxième tour 10 à 9.

Axelle se place 13eme et Léane 21eme sur 28 tireurs.

Nos deux jeunes filles sont qualifiées pour la demi-finale à Henin Beaumont.

		 

Quelques photos (merci Franck) !



		 





		 

Bravo les filles et merci à Frédérique pour avoir coachée nos filles!

	 
Tournoi de Souffelweyersheim ou souffel pour les intimes ! 
         - par           gilles_p
           le 16/01/2017 @ 11:51
Championnats D'Alsace 2016 et critérium H2024
         - par           gilles_p
           le 07/12/2016 @ 19:09


  Comme chaque année et aux deux armes l'ASIM Escrime était présent sur ce rendez-vous incontournable pour nos compétiteurs.Il fallait au préalable se qualifier dans les 16 premiers alsaciens de chaque catégorie ou être repêcher pour pouvoir concourir. Voici les résultats:


Epreuve Epee à Mulhouse 20/11/2016

Epée Dames Seniors

	7. Elodie TRITSCH
Signaler toute activitÃ© suspecte liÃ©e Ã  la consommation, Ã  la vente, au transport et Ã  la distribution de tabac provenant dâ€™un dÃ©taillant ne dÃ©tenant pas de permis
Â» Le tabac de contrebande â€“ lâ€™affaire de tous les NÃ©o-Brunswickois
Nâ€™ignorez pas la traite de personnes
La traite de personnes est souvent dâ€™Ã©crite comme une forme dâ€™esclavage moderne
Â» La traite de personnes
Nous voulons votre information, pas votre nom.
Ã‰chec au crime remettra une rÃ©compense pouvant aller jusqu'Ã Â 2Â 000Â $ pour tout renseignement permettant d'effectuer une arrestation.
Â» Crime de la semaine

	Nouvelles et Alertes
Ã‰chec au crime N.-B. est un programme Ã  but non lucratif financÃ© par les gens de la communautÃ© et gÃ©rÃ© par des bÃ©nÃ©voles. Le but du programme est la prÃ©vention et la rÃ©solution des crimes au Nouveau-Brunswick, en partenariat avec les agences dâ€™application de la loi, les mÃ©dias et le public.
Dites-nous ce que vous savez, pas qui vous Ãªtes.Â Vous avez des informations concernant un crime, aider Ã  rÃ©soudre ce crime en soumettant votre signalement par tÃ©lÃ©phone, ou en ligne. Votre signalement est anonyme.Â  Votre anonymat est garanti et vous pourriez recevoir une rÃ©compense monÃ©taire.

 
Ã‰chec au Crime Durham RÃ©gional Inc. Et X.Y.v. Sa MajestÃ© la Reine, 2017 SCC 45 Le 8 novembre, 2017 Toronto, Ontario, Canada : Depuis septembre 1976, Ã‰chec au Crime a Ã©tÃ© un leader Ã  unir les forces de lâ€™ordre, les mÃ©dia et le public Ã  combattre le crime. Le succÃ¨s dâ€™Ã‰chec au Crime a une……  Continue Reading
This site is best viewed on Internet Explorer 11 or higher, a current version of Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Google Chrome, or equivalent browser software. / Pour mieux visualiser le prÃ©sent site, il est prÃ©fÃ©rable d utiliser Internet Explorer 11 ou une version plus rÃ©cente, une version Ã  jour de Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Google Chrome, ou d un logiciel de navigation Ã©quivalent. Update Now / Mettre Ã  jour maintenant
×
CONTENT
Scribe Book - 01
Scribe Book - 02
Scribe Book - 03
Scribe Book - 04
Scribe Book - 05
Legal | About | Contact
Tags | Edit | Source | Print
Page tags

		It seems you have no tags attached to pages. To attach a tag simply click on the tags    button at the bottom of any page.	


Watchers

  		... and more

Just over two years ago, I lost my dad and saw the world crush in my eyes. I have a rather low threshold for tears, of joy or pain, but I had (and have) never cried as I did then. A heavyset seven- footer athlete, my dad had been battling hypertension quietly for preceding two years. He was on medication, watched his diet and had a regular fitness schedule at home and away. It was his problem and he had never made it an issue to the rest of the family except for the occasional mention that all was fine. In the month prior to his demise, he had visited his Physician more frequently. Dosages were adjusted, tests done and new instructions given.  All would be fine, the doctor hoped.
This optimism did not last. One fateful night, dad woke up in the middle of the night paralysed waist down. By morning, he had no function of all limbs. At the hospital that morning, he slipped in and out of total memory loss, then coma. In exactly 24 hours since he was last fine, dad was no more.
I had been away in Los Angeles for an exam. After my paper, I suddenly went off moods. I was sullen, withdrawn and disinterested in everything for no good reason. We had planned an after party with the rest of my colleagues but I opted out. I was just not in the mood. Little did I know dad was battling a war back home that he would soon lose. My phone had gone off after the battery drained during the daylong exam. I did not have a charger with me until over 600 km away in San Francisco where I was staying for the duration of this trip. However, when I turned on my phone, it came on briefly and I listened to a voice message from dad asking me to call him. I did and he sounded in his usual element for the first few seconds then went of a tangent in his speech. Someone from the rest of the family spoke to me and gave me an account of the events. Dad, in their assessment had made as remarkable an improvement as the deterioration had been. They hoped to leave the hospital in hours.
I was not convinced. My heart raced, tears welled and a drop fell to my phone. I was in a trance. The world seemed to spin slower by the minute and curtains were drawing! I had a strong feeling my dad was not going to come out of such a major stroke. I saw him on a wheelchair, sagging facial skin, drooling saliva and having all his activities of daily living tended to by others. An athletic man full of vigour and with an ever commanding presence reduced to a toddler all over again. I could not hold back my tears. I cried like a burst dam. I knew he faced certain disability or probable death.
We embarked on our road trip back to SF. All the beautiful stops that had made us opt for 6 hour road trip over a 2hour flight made no sense to me or the rest of the party. A few friends cried with me; the rest just slumped into their seats and drowned in their own thoughts. By the time we arrived, dad was in a coma. It was seven o’clock in the evening, about midnight in Kenya time. Nearly 6 hours later, he was no more.
To date, I have never known what words to tell anyone who has lost a loved one. I was told all manner of kind words but they made no meaning to me. The feeling of loss at that time was beyond any words or acts of consolation. Nothing made meaning if my dad would remain dead. I cried all night. My friends embarked on searching for a flight back to Kenya. They were crying between words as they spoke to the airline contact. She cried with them too on learning why I needed a flight in such a short notice. She put me on the next available flight that would connect to Nairobi quickest. I was grateful but my tears would not stop. I arrived at SFO in tears and after a couple of ‘dry’ quick connections in Chicago, JFK, Heathrow and JKIA, the reality dawned on landing at Kisumu.
I had flashbacks of moments when my dad would pray for us every night before he went to bed long after we had been in bed. The moments of quiet counsel. The moments of harsh punishment. The school visiting days. The gifts. His corner at the church and in the house. His mere presence in our minds even when we were not physically together. I have never really overcome his absence. It gets lighter with the passage of time but no one can condole me for this life changing loss. Perhaps quietly known to us as a family, we never tried to condole each other. I could not describe my loss and I knew my mum and siblings could not describe theirs either. We just mourned together undisturbed.
Looking back, I now think it was fair my dad died before any of his children; it is only fair that way. I cannot imagine what my dad would have felt to be the one mourning my death. The loss is much bigger. I have a nearly-two-year-old daughter with whom I have already made so much attachment. Her death in my life would devastate me. This is why even though I cannot pretend to comprehend Raila’s loss at Fidel Odinga’s sudden demise, I know the loss for him and his wife is beyond description.
The Bible captures the demise of King David’s seven-day old new-born in moving detail in 2 Samuel 12:18-23. King David fasted, wept and did not speak to his servants as he immersed himself in prayer for the life of his ailing new born. When it died on the seventh day, the servant could not muster the energy and courage to break the sad news to the King.
19 But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David understood that the child was dead. And David said to his servants, “Is the child dead?” They said, “He is dead.” – 2 Samuel 12:19
King David grieved solemnly. He had cried enough, fasted and sulked in prayer while the baby ailed. For Raila and spouse, there was no luxury of time. They just woke up to a dead son. The devastation is beyond any words of consolation. No condolences will make meaning. They will grieve in their own way and live with this loss for the rest of their lives. The loss of a child by a parent is an unnatural event. It deflates and nearly takes meaning out of all you worked for and hoped for your child and their future. It puts a sudden stop to what ought to be a lifetime journey. It kills a parent’s soul. I can only wish them and all other parents in their shoes the strength that God gave King David.
23 “But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.” –2 Samuel 12:23

RIP Fidel Odinga
As the world holds its breath on how the latest Ebola outbreak in West Africa might evolve, a clash of statist and globalist approaches has been evident all through; from media analysts, to International NGO’s to governments. Statist approaches have their reference point as the state/country and tend to view health risks as security concerns while globalist approaches have the individual as the reference point and tend to consider health risks as human rights issues that know no borders.
In classical statist responses, the government of Zambia has banned entry from or travel to any of the four most affected countries; Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. Neighboring Ghana and Ivory Coast have suspended flights within the region while Guinea, itself the epicenter of the outbreak, has closed borders with her neighbors Sierra Leone and Liberia and even declared a state of emergency! The latter three countries have deployed troops at their borders to help enforce movement restrictions. Similarly, many Americans, in the wake of Dr Kent Brantly’s airlifting, voiced reservations at their government’s decision to import the virus onto US soil. In fact, retired famous Neurosurgeon Dr Ben Carson is on record recommending that the two infected Americans should have been at best treated abroad. Back home, many Kenyans are apprehensive and concerned that the virus might make its way into the country aboard the national carrier Kenya Airways, a major carrier connecting West African countries to Kenya. A suspected case late last week (Aug 9th) threw panic across the city. Thankfully, he tested negative. These measures are reminiscent of the early days of HIV/AIDS when fear and panic rather than sound medical principles informed most reactions.
The common theme through statist approaches is the definition of disease as a security threat to the nation akin to an invasion. As a result, nations tend to go onto the defense and shut borders, ban flights, expel victims, declare states of emergency and at the bottom of the list, even deploy propaganda. Granted, the socio-economic disruption across West Africa as a result of this outbreak is indeed a threat to the stability of the most affected nations. While in certain instances some or all of these interventions might be helpful, they are seldom successful of their own. Purely statist approaches, beyond securitizing the health threat and evoking a pervasive sense of fear, often overlook the actual necessary interventions.
“The bottom line with Ebola is we know how to stop it: traditional public health,” US CDC Director, Dr Tom Frieden.
In the case of Ebola, a viral infectious hemorrhagic fever of which there is fair medical knowledge, proper hygiene and isolation of symptomatic victims seem to help forestall further spread even as a cure remains elusive. At best, only about a third of infected patients may be nursed back to health. That said, Ebola outbreaks remain either an indictment or appraisal of a health system’s infection prevention and control mechanisms, sensu lato.  This outbreak has therefore merely put to the fore an underlying and long prevalent rot: health systems that are weak from the foundation up.
In as many Sub-Saharan hospitals as homes, clean running water remains a luxury rather than the basic commodity it ought to be. Further, basic and cheap protective gear like gloves and facemasks are frequently out of supply. It is no guess whether these institutions would have enough of costly supplies like intravenous fluids and colloids for the medical support of potential Ebola survivors or management of other conditions. The last nail on the coffin that such a health system represents is surprisingly not the prevalent biting shortage of qualified personnel nor the mismanagement of the few available skilled hands, it’s the population!
“Ignorance and poverty, as well as entrenched religious and cultural practices, continue to exacerbate the spread of the disease,” President Ellen Sirleaf, Liberia.
Many Africans are yet to adopt the germ theory of infectious disease. Developed in the mid 1800’s, this theory remains the most plausible explanation for infections: that tiny living matter (bacteria, viruses, fungi, etc) must physically enter a susceptible host through a particular mode (air, food, blood, etc) in sufficient numbers to cause a disease. With this knowledge, people are forewarned and therefore forearmed on ways to avoid known infections. For Ebola, this means limiting if not avoiding all unprotected contact with infected individuals and bodies of victims and washing up adequately when such contact occurs. Sadly, many individuals still believe diseases like Ebola are curses that need exorcism or just prayers. The sick and bodies of the dead are handled casually every day; Ebola or other disease.
As more of Africa opens up to itself and the world, future outbreaks might be more complex and widespread in the absence of significant systemic changes on the public health platform. However, this threat also presents hope. The growth that is opening up and connecting Africa might come with more medical workers in the unreached areas, greater economic strength for adequate stocking of facilities with essential supplies and greater population knowledge and practise of basic hygiene and sanitation. Additionally, improved communication networks mean future outbreaks maybe detected earlier and aid to stricken populations availed sooner.
Globalist approaches to public health crises know no borders. They view health risks anywhere as a health risk everywhere in cognition of the inherent value of human life, right to a dignified pain-free existence and the interconnectedness of humans. These approaches therefore focus on open borders for collaborations, funds, skills and supplies to affected areas, advocacy for action and open reporting of events. An Africa seeking greater ties within itself and with the rest of the world will have to adopt more globalist approaches to our numerous public health perils.
“African states must do more to promote conditions for a dignified human existence within their borders.”
Finally, even though investment in proper health systems is one sure way to healthy populations, these efforts must not stop at the hospital level. The bulk of health dividends will be reaped from investment in other sectors. It is ignominious that 50 years post-independence, many African countries have yet to supply their people with adequate clean water, clean energy, safe public transport, adequate food and enough relevant knowledge. Globalists and other non-state actors will continue to play  a role in this respect but the long end of the buck lies in the hands of our respective states to do that they were set up to do: promote conditions for a dignified human existence within their borders.
Learn about Ebola
The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board is a statutory body established by Chapter 253 of the Laws of Kenya in 1978. As the name suggests, the primary role of the Board is the determination, licensure and maintenance of an annual register of duly qualified doctors and dentists.
To achieve this, the Board regulates and supervises the general practice of medicine and dentistry, conduct of internship and the academic programs of medical school programs. Contrary to public opinion, the Board is neither a welfare society for doctors nor a tribunal for medico-legal cases. In fact, the Board’s mandate in medico-legal disputes is only indirectly implied in the Act that establishes it! However, its operations and decisions might make it appear as either: depending on one’s perspective.

By composition, the Board is a ‘special-interests’ body drawing appointees from government, medical schools and doctors. The Cabinet Secretary for Health appoints the Chairman and nominates at least four other doctors. Additionally, the Director of Medical Services and his deputy are automatic nominees to the Board. In fact, the DMS is the Board’s registrar. After government, the next most represented interest group are the medical schools; each sending nominees to the Board.  Finally, duly registered doctors have seven slots to the Board filled through an election. Tenure for all members is a renewable term of five years.
The bare minimum qualification for Board membership is a due registration as a doctor/dentist. In principle and letter of the law, a newly qualified Medical Officer is as eligible to the Board as is a Paediatric Neurosurgeon of 20 years. Traditionally though, members to the Board have been highly qualified and extensively experienced senior doctors. To its credit or disdain, the Board has been an unofficial holding ground for appointment to senior government positions or conversely, a halfway house from top echelons in government.

For more details, follow these links to Chapter 253 of the Laws of Kenya (the primary reference source for this article) and the Board.


For more details, follow these links to Chapter 253 of the Laws of Kenya (the primary reference source for this article) and the Board.


The WHO has a long convoluted definition of health as is typical of most organizations of its stature and mandate. To the average person, African or not, health is subjectively defined in simpler terms; a state of wellness and ability to cope with the daily demands of life. The similarities end here. What counts for normalcy in Western Europe and North America is literally worlds apart from the same in Asia or Africa. While the per capita annual spend on health in the US is about $8000 and $3000 in Western Europe, every African individual spends only about $85 towards their health annually! This comparison, at face value, is damning. Indeed health care in the West is highly specialized and commensurately expensive; in great contrast to the African context where healthcare largely involves basic primary care. The expenditure gap is therefore a result of the size of the health ‘shopping cart’. This cart is significantly small for most of Africa with just a handful of goods while our American/European counterparts have a large cart bursting with goodies. Looked at differently, the African public sector is unable to push the ideal health cart and has chosen to keep only as few goods in it as it can push. This beggars the question; is health a public burden in Africa?

In his book ‘Why Africa Is Poor; And What Africans Can Do About It’, prolific author, researcher and international expert Dr Greg Mills goes at great lengths to demonstrate the central role the health of any nation has on its ability to grow from poverty to prosperity. Health is the very foundation of productivity and growth. A population afflicted by disease and illness spends less time in the production of the goods and services it needs. Complementary to good health is education; the skills to produce, and leadership; the organization of priorities. All developed economies have had to make deliberate provisions for the health and skills of their people to be where they are today. Other factors are subsets of these three pillars. Is it thus plausible to argue that leadership is wanting in Africa for it not to have prioritized the health of her people? The statistics all point to a sector in wanton neglect and crying for attention; life expectancy at birth of 56 years (against 80 in developed countries) and unacceptably high all-cause mortality and disease rates. Viewed against investment in health and other social services, these grim figures are proportionate to the dismal investments in these sectors. However, Africa is a vast territory of 54 nations; each unique in its own right and internally very diverse. A sweeping statement like this may not fly but remains valid for the most part. Analyzing individual countries paints a more accurate if grimmer picture than these continental averages.
Take Kenya for instance, a country with a per capita GDP (PPP) of  just under $ 2000 spending a meager 4% of her GDP on healthcare. Two thirds the citizens live on less than $ 2 a day and predominantly rely on the state-run health system for their health needs. The health system is mainly funded by central government taxes (direct and indirect) in addition to co-payment into a largely voluntary national insurance scheme that covers nearly two million of the 40 million citizens. Those not covered, an overwhelming majority, are expected to share costs with the state in the form of user fees at points of care. These direct fees amount to 60% of all the national health spend. There is no explicit provision for the care of the worst-off in the society; the elderly and the extreme poor. Where provisions exist, like for children under five, free treatment is often negated by a lack of an assortment of supplies including drugs which patients routinely have to buy out of pocket. In addition to the direct costs of healthcare, majority of the population bear disproportionately high indirect costs in accessing health. Transport costs are highest in the rural areas where physical access is lowest and poverty highest. The opportunity cost of time in seeking care also tends to be higher for the worst-off of the society; they make no income when sick and have to pay to get back on their feet. As though not already overburdened, the poor further face a silent hidden cost: counterfeits and illegal practitioners. Illegal practitioners take advantage of the unmet health needs of those disenfranchised by the formal system. It is here where counterfeits are passed off for genuine drugs and overall quality of care much lower than anywhere else but at a fraction of the direct monetary cost. This situation is not unique to Kenya: across Africa, millions of poor peasants have to make the choice between their health and food or work. While it is obvious that productivity is lost with every episode of illness, most African governments have failed to embrace this rather simple fact that a good health status is the basic unit of productivity; even ahead of education/vocation.
A sad irony is that while majority wallow in poor health, a small middle class in Kenya (like in other African countries) has access to fairly comprehensive employer-financed health covers tenable at some of the best health facilities around the country. These people do not lose much income (if at all) for their sick-time and do not have to pay for their health costs at the point of care. This sad state of affairs ensures that only a small subset of the nation enjoys good health and subsequent productivity and therefore carries the resultant burden of the sick and less productive. This further widens inequalities and keeps entire nations stuck in poverty, disease and underdevelopment; a reality so prevalent across Africa and within nations.
On the contrary, Germany spends 12% of its GDP on healthcare with direct private fees amounting to only 25% of the total health spend. The health basket in Germany is certainly larger but it is important to note that the bulk of the financing for health is prepaid. Public funds shoulder nearly one quarter of the health budget with the rest covered by prepaid compulsory universal health insurance into which employees and employers contribute. Further, the government makes payments for those out of employment or otherwise unable to make an income. This single feature creates a system in which ability to pay is not a determinant of access to health services. Efficiency and collaboration between private and public players in financing, service delivery and research into healthcare is high and the overall result is a system that meets the health needs of all citizens including the less fortunate. Needless to add, the dividends of a healthy nation are self-evident; greater productivity, longer lives and greater quality of life.
However, a good national health service is not by itself a guarantee to improved national health status. The health service is only one of a retinue of factors that determine the health status of individuals. Commodities like food security, water and sanitation, education, clean energy and social cohesion achieve greater health benefits and savings than the health service itself. It takes leadership to define programs that integrate these individual components into a system that delivers health to the nation. This demands an awful amount of political capital and ownership for any meaningful success. Africa must begin making homegrown decisions for her people. The introduction of user fees in hospitals and state divestiture from several key public sectors (including water, electricity and transport) can be remembered by all to have been a top down condition by the Bretton Woods institutions in the infamous Structural Adjustments Program era of the 80’s. Today, fragmentation of healthcare in most African countries amongst disparate donors with as many interests has made sure that only modest gains have been made in the improvement of healthcare. The presence of these programs if for nothing else is testimony to the fact that our health systems are not functional as presently constituted. A conscious effort must be made to ensure the attainment of universal population coverage as the first step in achieving universal health care. To ensure a meaningful health package, the financing of health – as a necessity – needs to be prepaid rather than at the point of service. Mechanisms must also be placed to ensure the most disadvantaged of society are not disenfranchised from the health system by way of fees. And more importantly, there must be efficiency at every level; collection and pooling of funds, purchasing of health goods and services, management of the health workforce and research. This calls for closer mutual public-private partnership and for emphasis; leadership. Only then shall we begin to have a healthy enough population that can engage in production and economic and social development. Fortunately, these developments are already taking place in countries like Ghana, Rwanda and Burkina Faso with steady and remarkable results. It must remain alive to us that universal health is a public burden; not to be shunned, but one to be borne by everyone in a way that especially seeks out the most disadvantaged in the society.
Silicon Valley is responding to another set of sexual harassment scandals[1] that threaten shareholder value. Ferrazzi Greenlight sees such egregious violations of leadership integrity like sexually harassment, thievery, telling blatant untruths, as the outcomes of another set of catalytic integrity breaches of poor leadership including a lack of candor, lack of strong peer-to-peer accountability, lack of team commitment to each other, lack of service among leaders and a lack of strong collaborative dialog. This inventory of catalytic integrity behaviors are not only critical because their violations predict downstream more egregious integrity breaches of behavior but they themselves are also proven to be stealing from shareholders.

A recent study by Robert Half Management Resources has found that integrity is ranked as the most important leadership trait, which makes sense since people are more likely to follow and be loyal to leaders who model admirable behavior. Defining that integrity, though, is a different matter. In a fluid environment where industries change rapidly, it’s critical that leadership teams commit to a collaborative mindset that focuses on everyone succeeding collectively while assuming responsibility for the individual success of each teammate.

	0 article(s) = 0,00 €

		Du lundi au vendredi de 9h30 à 12h et de 14h à 17h	

	Transporteur / Suivi colis par Internet


			Livraison en France Métropolitaine : 
			
			A partir de :
			12,00 € 

Découvrez nos Frais de port




	Paiement Bancaire renforcé grâce à 
	3D-SECURE ou Chèque.


Découvrez notre site de vente spécialisé

Criminal Organizations, Globalism, Zionism
Written by  Daniel McAdams 
Wednesday January 17, 2018
Confirming that the US military presence inside Syria had little to do with fighting ISIS, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson unveiled in detail today the real US strategy for Syria: overthrow of the Assad government.
In a speech at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution and introduced by President George W. Bush’s Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, Secretary Tillerson vowed that the United States military would continue to occupy Syrian territory until three conditions are met:
First: ISIS must be destroyed.
This condition is made all the more problematic by the well-reported fact that it is the United States government that at every turn seems to pull ISIS chestnuts out of the fire. From handing them weapons to allowing them to escape when they are trapped in places like Raqqa, it almost seems like the US does not want to really see the end of ISIS.
Second: Assad must go. 
Tillerson’s admission that this is a sine qua non for any US military departure from Syria confirms that the Trump foreign policy is no different from that of Hillary Clinton or her former boss, President Obama. Recall that as part of his “thank you” tour, President-elect Trump reiterated promises made by candidate Trump to break with the past:
We will pursue a new foreign policy that finally learns from the mistakes of the past. We will stop looking to topple regimes and overthrow governments. …In our dealings with other countries we will seek shared interests wherever possible…”
It is clear that he lied, as it is reported that he signed off on this new Syria strategy last month at a meeting of his National Security Council.
Secretary Tillerson said today that new elections should be held in Syria and that President Assad should lose:
The United States believes that free and transparent elections … will result in the permanent departure of Assad and his family from power… Assad’s regime is corrupt, and his methods of governance and economic development have increasingly excluded certain ethnic and religious groups… Such oppression cannot persist forever.
Tillerson’s speech reveals that the old myth about the Syrian people “rising up” to overthrow Assad is still very much viewed as Gospel truth in Washington:
…our expectation is that the desire for a return to normal life … will help rally the Syrian people and individuals within the regime to compel Assad to step down.
Translation: we are going to continue to make life miserable for you until you overthrow Assad. Then it will return to “normal.” Presumably the people of Syria understand what “normal” life after a US “liberation” looks like from examples like Libya, Iraq, and Ukraine.
Tillerson also made the bizarre assertion that US troops will remain in Syria to prevent the Syrian government from re-establishing control over the parts of Syria abandoned by a defeated ISIS. So the legitimate government of Syria will be prevented by an illegal United States military occupation from reclaiming its own territory? This is supposed to be a coherent policy?
Third: Refugees must be returned to Syria.
Secretary Tillerson said today at Stanford University:
America has an opportunity to help people who have suffered greatly. The safe and voluntary return of #Syrian refugees serves the security interests of the U.S. and our allies and partners. We must give Syrians a chance to return home and rebuild their lives.
But the one event that led to the biggest return of refugees back to Syria was violently opposed by the US government: the Syrian government’s liberation of east Aleppo from al-Qaeda control!
For additional consideration:
The US military is busy creating a 30,000-strong Kurdish militia to reportedly guard Syria’s borders with Turkey and Iraq. NATO-ally Turkey is violently opposing US moves to further arm Kurd groups that it considers terrorist.
The discredited “Free Syrian Army” (FSA) is back in Washington begging the Trump Administration to re-open the CIA weapons pipeline. The FSA is perhaps best known for immediately handing any weapons it gets from Washington directly to al-Qaeda in Syria. Will Trump’s neocon-filled ecosphere convince him to once again put some wind in al-Qaeda’s sails?
Will Congress awake from its slumber and finally dust off the part of the Constitution directing the Legislative Branch to decide on matters of war and peace? It’s probably an ill-advised bet, however there are a few whispers on Capitol Hill that a shift in US military focus from anti-ISIS to anti-Assad and anti-Iran might be slightly problematic.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has just unveiled a 100 percent neocon approved “new” US policy for Syria: No more pussyfooting around. We won’t abandon our project in Syria like Obama “abandoned” Libya (presumably, as the neocon myth goes, on the verge of becoming a new Switzerland after its “liberation” only to be thrust back into the mire by Obama’s premature withdrawal).
President Trump is set to out-neocon the neocons with this foolish and destructive policy. The showman is shown to be nothing but a fraud.
Copyright © 2018 by RonPaul Institute.
via The Ron Paul Institute for Peace and Prosperity

			I object to and oppose the nefarious and devious force that schemes to enslave the world.			
				View all posts by oppositionx			

Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.
 




Fearless Freedom Press supports the essential human right of free speech, a fundamental building block of free society, affirmed by the U.S. Bill of Rights in 1791 and by the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights in 1948.
For more on this visit this site's About page.
Enter your email address to follow Fearless Freedom Press and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 272 other followers







 
		                Follow                    

Read Francis Parker Yockey’s, Imperium:
Every Man and Woman of the West will find in this brilliant work a history of the West – how and why we find Ourselves in the harrowing predicament of Our time. The unvarnished truth that dispels of the fallacies and distortions which have crippled the West into its deadly occupation by alien forces both inside and out. (Click on Image to access pdf)



 Barnes Review 
Institute For Historical Review
The Occidental Observer
Justice For Germans
Lies Your Teacher Told You
Washington Report On Middle East Affairs
Council For The National Interest
American Free Press
RadicalPress.com (Archived Site)
VeteransToday
Information Clearing House
If Americans Knew
Zündelsite
David Irving's Focal Point Site
Inconvenient History
NETUREI KARTA Intl - Jews United Against Zionism
Alfred Lillienthal
Noontide Press
USS Liberty Memorial

Ending White Slavery:
There is perhaps no publication in print that better describes the reality facing the White Race today than Matthew Hale’s, Ending White Slavery. Hale brilliantly elucidates the concepts that have created the state of mental enslavement which has allowed the other races to run roughshod over the natural rights of the White Race. Concepts that have, in turn, led the Race to this dangerous stage of White genocide.
For those interested in reading the complete text, which includes Matthew Hale’s clear-minded prescription for turning the tide, Fearless Freedom Press offers a pdf version for download. (Click on Image to access pdf)


To read the first chapter and further info regarding Matt Hale click here.
Read Michael Collins Piper's Final Judgment: The Missing Link in the JFK Assassination Conspiracy - this is the damning indictment of Jewish and Israeli elements' role in the masterminding of the plot to murder the United States' 35th President.



© 2019 Fearless Freedom Press

Create a website or blog at WordPress.com


Washington has a long history of massacring people, for example, the destruction of the Plains Indians by the Union war criminals Sherman and Sheridan and the atomic bombs dropped on Japanese civilian populations, but Washington has progressed from periodic massacres to full-time massacring.
From the Clinton regime forward, massacre of civilians has become a defining characteristic of the United States of America.
Washington is responsible for the destruction of Yugoslavia and Serbia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, and part of Syria. Washington has enabled Saudi Arabia’s attack on Yemen, Ukraine’s attack on its former Russian provinces, and Israel’s destruction of Palestine and the Palestinian people.
The American state’s murderous rampage through the Middle East and North Africa was enabled by the Europeans who provided diplomatic and military cover for Washington’s crimes. Today the Europeans are suffering the consequences as they are over-run by millions of refugees from Washington’s wars. The German women who are raped by the refugees can blame their chancellor, a Washington puppet, for enabling the carnage from which refugees flee to Europe.

In this article Mattea Kramer points out that Washington has added to its crimes the mass murder of civilians with drones and missile strikes on weddings, funerals, children’s soccer games, medical centers and people’s homes. Nothing can better illustrate the absence of moral integrity and moral conscience of the American state and the population that tolerates it than the cavalier disregard of the thousands of murdered innocents as “collateral damage.”
If there is any outcry from Washington’s European, Canadian, Australian, and Japanese vassals, it is too muted to be heard in the US.
As Kramer points out, American presidential hopefuls are competing on the basis of who will commit the worst war crimes. A leading candidate has endorsed torture, despite its prohibition under US and international law. The candidate proclaims that “torture works” — as if that is a justification — despite the fact that experts know that it does not work. Almost everyone being tortured will say anything in order to stop the torture. Most of those tortured in the “war on terror” have proven to have been innocents. They don’t know the answers to the questions even if they were prepared to give truthful answers. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn relates that Soviet dissidents likely to be picked up and tortured by the Soviet secret police would memorize names on gravestones in order to comply with demands for the names of their accomplices. In this way, torture victims could comply with demands without endangering innocents.

Washington’s use of invasion, bombings, and murder by drone as its principle weapon against terrorists is mindless. It shows a government devoid of all intelligence, focused on killing alone. Even a fool understands that violence creates terrorists. Washington hasn’t even the intelligence of fools.
The American state now subjects US citizens to execution without due process of law despite the strict prohibition by the US Constitution. Washington’s lawlessness toward others now extends to the American people themselves.
The only possible conclusion is that under Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama the US government has become an unaccountable, lawless, criminal organization and is a danger to the entire world and its own citizens.
SOURCE
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

 *NAME
 *EMAIL — Get a Gravatar
 Website URL
 




This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
A South Carolina man is facing attempted murder charges for allegedly shooting his 17-year-old cousin during an argument over salt and vinegar potato chips.
According to the Post and Courier, Ryan Dean Langdale, 19, initially reported the September 29 incident as an accidental shooting. However, police announced Wednesday that forensic evidence contradicted claims that the 17-year-old accidentally shot himself when he dropped a rife that he was cleaning.
Colleton County police Major J.W. Chapman said it would’ve been “impossible” for the teen to have accidentally shot himself given the trajectory of the bullet that pierced his chest and nearly killed him.
How do you protect your children from predators? Join Nancy Grace and a team of world-class experts for the limited series event ‘Justice Nation: Crime Stops Here’.
“We knew from the beginning that something wasn’t right,” he told the newspaper. “The more we looked into it, the more it seemed odd.”
The victim was rushed to the hospital and underwent life-saving surgery. He woke up a week later reportedly told police that Langdale shot him during a disagreement over potato chips. According to a sheriff’s report obtained by The Post and Courier, the victim stated that Langdale threatened to shoot him if he touched his chips before retrieving a rifle from a back room and aiming it at him.
“The next thing he knew the rifle went off,” the report said.
Not only is Langdale accused of telling the victim to lie to police about what happened, but investigators alleged Langdale claimed a different rifle was used in the shooting. The newspaper reported that authorities retrieved the weapon used in the shooting on Monday.
Langdale is also charged with using a firearm in a violent crime and obstructing justice. His bail was set at $55,000.
Join Nancy Grace for her new online video series designed to help you protect what you love most – your children.
 
[Featured image: Ryan Dean Langdale/Colleton County Sheriff’s Office]
Do you want to read more articles like this?
or
Skip and continue to the site


Es ist ein Fehler aufgetreten
Sehr geehrter Medizinjobs-direkt-Nutzer, leider konnte die gesuchte Seite nicht gefunden werden. Bitte gehen Sie auf die Homepage zurück und versuchen Sie es erneut. Für die Umstände möchten wir uns entschuldigen!
04 66 63 49 35
3 B Avenue général Vincent,  30700 UZES.
5.10€ TVA Inclus
La noix de coco râpée : superbe en décoration, savoureuse en bouche!
Gâteaux, pralines, macarons: la noix de coco râpée fait simplement partie des choses sucrées. Mais avez-vous déjà essayé la noix de coco râpée dans un plat asiatique? Magnifiquement harmonieux! En particulier, si vous avez utilisé du lait de coco dans la préparation. La noix de coco râpée n’est pas seulement bonne, elle est également un plaisir pour les yeux sur les desserts et est avant tout saine. La noix de coco râpée contient tous les nutriments de la noix de coco et contribue ainsi à une alimentation saine.
5 en stock
    
Faites de vos macarons à la noix de coco râpée bio des pâtisseries de haute volée ! Grâce à notre noix de coco râpée, vous améliorez tous vos plats sucrés et salés. Votre imagination n'a pas de limites. Parsemez la noix de coco râpée non blanchie dans vos woks ou votre muesli ou combinez-la de façon inhabituelle par exemple à de la viande ou du poisson. Quelques copeaux dans votre plat ou votre boisson, quelques uns dessus et le tour est joué ! Que ce soit pour vos gâteaux, biscuits, glaces ou crèmes, vos lentilles, votre sauce asiatique ou votre vinaigrette : avec notre noix de coco râpée, vous êtes toujours du côté savoureux !
Noix de coco râpée bio plus de plaisir pour les personnes soucieuses de leur alimentation Nous obtenons notre noix de coco râpée bio premium à partir de la chair fraîche de noix de coco bio que nous traitons dans les 72heures suivant la récolte. La chair de noix de coco est séchée en douceur en dessous de 38°C puis râpée finement. Aucun additif, aucun moyen artificiel simplement la nature pure. Remarque: la noix de coco râpée bio fraîchement récoltée de Dr. Goerg a une couleur beige. Cela est une caractéristique de qualité car, contrairement à la noix de coco râpée conventionnelle, notre noix de coco râpée n'est pas blanchie et est entièrement naturelle, sans additif.
Versatile, décoratif et délicieux Chez Dr. Goerg, on ne râpe pas la réglisse mais de la chair fraîche de noix de coco. Et grâce à celle-ci, vous mettez du peps dans vos plats ! Lorsque vous décorez vos pâtisseries avec de la noix de coco râpée ou en copeaux, ce n'est pas seulement beau, c'est également savoureux. Vous pouvez bien évidemment améliorer d'autres plats grâce à notre noix de coco râpée bio : poêlées asiatiques, woks, currys, soupes, sauces, salades, desserts tels que crèmes ou glace et boissons telles que smoothies ou milkshakes. Vous obtiendrez un bel effet décoratif en plongeant le bord d'un verre à cocktail dans du jus de citron puis dans de la noix de coco finement râpée ou en roulant des boules pralinées dans les fins copeaux.
la noix de coco râpée bio de Dr. Goerg se conserve pendant deux ans. Conservez la noix de coco râpée dans un endroit sec à température ambiante et évitez les rayons directs du soleil.
Plus d'information sur l'article de notre blog
Il n’y pas encore d’avis.
Seulement les clients connectés ayant acheté ce produit peuvent laisser un avis.




04 66 63 49 35
3 Bis avenue général Vincent,  30700 Uzès.

 

Login | 
			Register | 
			Language / Select language |
			About |
			Blog
Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum

2 Park Avenue
New York, NY
Herrick hosted a Mortgage Title Fraud symposium bringing together prosecutors from local district attorney's offices, as well as senior officials from the county's largest title companies, including Fidelity, Chicago, First American, Old Republic and Stewart, to discuss the prosecution of mortgage fraud.
Arthur G. Jakoby
Avery S. Mehlman

He reined havoc from the Caribbean to Boston and was so feared that many gave up their goods and money to him without his firing a shot. Blackbeard was a swashbuckling, fearsome, terrorist who has dominated our tales of the sea from then until now. He met his fate on Nov. 22, 1718 — 300 years ago this week. His life and downfall makes quite a story.Blackbeard was born Edward Teach and won his nickname by his long beard and flowing black locks. He was a skillful navigator and a feared naval tactician. Newspapers up and down the coast of the Colonies carried the exploits of this most famous of American pirates. “Who was this upstart who could attack American coastal cities and ships at sea and disappear without a trace?” Stories and poems were written about him, the invisible and invincible pirate. Mothers frightened their children with the bare mention of his name. By the early years of the 18th century, Blackbeard had become the best known and most feared of all the rogues of the high seas.Perhaps Blackbeard’s best known incursion into U.S. history was in May 1718 when he sailed his fleet of pirate ships into Charleston Harbor. He blockaded the harbor, captured and plundered nine ships and took several hostages including a member of the South Carolina Legislature. He held the prisoners for ransom which the city gladly paid to get back their citizens and to see the stern of his ship, Queen Ann’s Revenge, sailing away.Blackbeard left Charleston Harbor gloating over the fact that not only had he taken the most valuable loot of his career, he had, as one writer put it, “reduced to total submission the proud people of South Carolina without firing a single shot.”What Blackbeard and his cohorts did not count on was that in the South, revenge rides hard on the heels of humiliation. History records that the courts of Charleston in November of that same year hanged a total of 49 pirates. The pride of South Carolina was certainly restored in great measure by these successes against piracy. Blackbeard, however, was not among those executed in Charleston.The ruthless pirate met his demise just a few months later when the governor of Virginia dispatched a small fleet to Blackbeard’s stronghold on Ocracoke Island on North Carolina’s Outer Banks. After a fierce battle, Blackbeard and many of his men were killed or captured.Lt. Robert Maynard, commander of the Virginia contingent, executed Blackbeard on the deck of his ship. He chopped off Blackbeard’s head and attached it to his mast. Legend has it that when they threw Blackbeard’s body over, it swam around the boat seven times before sinking. The specter of Blackbeard’s head hanging on the mast of Maynard’s ship made quite a sensation when Maynard sailed his ship into the harbor at Norfolk.Pirates were the scourge of the high seas in the Western Hemisphere from the late 1600s until the Revolutionary War in the late 1770s. Pirates, or privateers as they came to be called, joined the fight for freedom and were a major factor in the war with Great Britain.The story of Blackbeard the Pirate is still told in fictional stories. Several movies have been made about his exploits. He is memorialized even today on the stage at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, where former Anderson, South Carolina resident, Stan Wood, played the villain for several years in Dolly Parton’s “Pirates Voyage Show.”The life of Edward Teach, Blackbeard the Pirate, is not one that we celebrate but it is worthy of note that he met his fate 300 years ago this week. There has been none like him since.— You can reach Dr. Mark L. Hopkins at presnet@presnet.net. Books by Hopkins, “Journey to Gettysburg, The Wounds of War, The World as it was When Jesus Came,” and “Facts & Opinions on the Issues of our Time,” can be acquired at Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, and through the E-mail above.
© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse Opinion
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Hockessin Community News  ~ 24 W. Main St., Middletown, DE 19709 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service
Blog and PDP Views Code
Your browser does not support iframes.
Hvar Island is an important stop on any wine tour of Croatia. The Greeks first planted grapes there in the 4th century BC and grape growing and wine making were very important to the island’s economy for well over a millennia. Phylloxera came to the island in the early 20th century, forcing many of the island’s winemakers to move to other countries, and while wine was made during the communist era, it was generally not fine wine.  Now fine wine making is coming back to the island, slowly but surely.
Hvar Island is unbelievably gorgeous and a well-known tourist destination, but it is our goal not only to enjoy the views but to get a sense of island life and what the people living on the island do to survive. Here are some highlights of our days there.
First, we check in to our accommodations – the apartments Komazin, where we all have plenty of space and a warm welcome from the family Komazin.  From our terraces we can see the beautiful Adriatic sea.
We head into Hvar Town for a few photos and our first dinner on the island.
The next day, we explore Hvar Town and then set off in a bus to see other parts of the island, including the Unesco site the Stari Grad Plain and the town of Stari Grad.
We then head to Pinjata Winery, where owner/chef Marina cooks a beautiful lunch for us.  Her dessert wine and grappa afterwards is the icing on the happy cake.
After lunch we head up to the Venetian fortress above Hvar Town to see the views and perhaps walk down into town for shopping or cafe-sitting before dinner.


Forgot your password?



By
XXI Inc, September 7, 2009 in GTA III


Ok here's the deal,
 
I don't know exactly if someone made this. But I never saw someone doing it.
Enjoy
 
Note: Sorry for bad video edition. I'm trying to upgrade it.
 
Also here are the steps:
 
-Start a new game
-wait to the end of the cutscene (final bomb in the Callaham bridge).
-Type "BANGBANGBANG" every time before the cutscene finish
NOTE: You can type the cheat starting the notice interview
-try to blow up the kumura car.
-Done
 
The video proof


Claude being humble.
 
 
This basicially is just a 4K Vegas Pro rendering test, but i always wanted to do a video like this with rims XBOX HD mod. Too bad that i haven't found a working traffic density mod because LC feels really empty for such videos 
 
 
What camera hack did you use?
What camera hack did you use?
 
http://www.gtainside.com/en/gta3/mods/104493-fly-camera/
Just in case anyone didn't know.
 
You can also move Claude and drive cars while in CamHack mode using GS camhack CLEO script. Just find
 
set_player $PLAYER_CHAR frozen_state 0 
 
in one of the first several lines of the CLEO camhack script and set it to 1.
 
Ain't got a clue why this is set to 0. Making him uncontrollable.
 
What camera hack did you use?
http://www.gtainside.com/en/gta3/mods/104493-fly-camera/
GTA III vs Liberty City Stories Spots comparison (Portland Island)


Here is the first part of my GTA III Playthrough! https://youtu.be/UKEhc1qUROE
Just goofing around with dialogue lines 
 
Second Part of GTA III Playthrough!!! Happy new year everyone!!! https://youtu.be/4Kfqv3ourDI
The best stunt you will ever see in GTA 3 
 
 
 GTA 3 Peds Are Pretty Dumb
 
 
 
skip to 4:15, curly bob walks into the sea. never seen that before

Who are you?


I'm Hazy, a life long GTA and Rockstar Games fan. I decided to kick off my streaming career with a GTA Spree!


What is the GTA Spree?


It is a playthrough for all of the GTA's, starting from GTA III, going all the way up to GTA V.


What's in it for me?


Good vibes, humor, a friendly chat and of course TONS and TONS OF NOSTALGIA!


 


Find me on Twitch.tv and let me know if you have any more questions! 


The Exchange in 3 minutes(ish).


 


 


Is Maria actually a man? Do Ray Machowski and Donald Love have a secret gay relationship? Who stays behind Donald's succes? Is Asuka abusing Claude and is she an actual undercover agent from the Soviet Union? Watch the new video from my YTP series "Fun With GTA III" and maybe you'll find out 

 


Laughed pretty hard in the first part with Maria. Keep doing these. Also, are you using anything other than the Xbox mod? I forgot how good the game looks with that.


Laughed pretty hard in the first part with Maria. Keep doing these. Also, are you using anything other than the Xbox mod? I forgot how good the game looks with that.


Thanks  I'm happy that someone likes it. I always play the Xbox mod with each of the 3rd party mods inside it  (skin & bones, skygfx, SilentPatch, Open Limit Adjuster) constantly updated. Besides that I also use Project 2dfx but it you can't notice it in this kind of videos since the footage is mainly cutscenes.


I use those as well but Onepiece's HD vehicles bugged my game. Still need to figure out which of the vehicles is causing my game to crash (or the combination of several mods). I might just revert to the Xbox models for stability's sake.


I use those as well but Onepiece's HD vehicles bugged my game. Still need to figure out which of the vehicles is causing my game to crash (or the combination of several mods). I might just revert to the Xbox models for stability's sake.


Well, I've never tried to use Onepiece's vehicles with the Xbox mod since they also have a different handling. Also the mod provides the whole original gta3.img archive with replace vehicles rather than only the files needed for the cars which is another reason that I didn't consider using it (too lazy to search and extract the vehicles from the img file :D). But the best thing I could suggest you is to use modloader and put the vehicles there. This also allows you to put vehicles one by one in real time and see the result so as soon as the game crashes you would know which vehicle cause s it. My bet is that it's due to the additional vehicles which were not part of the original game.


I didn't install those. I also removed the lines that mentioned them from default.ide. Maybe I f*cked something up and forgot to remove the lines for the extra vehicles in other files. I'm pretty sure I kept the original handling.dat.


 


Weird thing is that I can trigger a crash by just pausing the game a bunch of times. I will investigate at some point but I don't have a GPU in my PC right now so it will have to wait.


I've continued our conversation in a PM, let's keep this topic clean 


This was my take on the 100th round of the Chain Game.


 


 


 


You can post now and register later.
If you have an account, sign in now to post with your account.


×
  Pasted as rich text.   Paste as plain text instead


  Only 75 emoji are allowed.


×
  Your link has been automatically embedded.   Display as a link instead




×
  Your previous content has been restored.   Clear editor


×
  You cannot paste images directly. Upload or insert images from URL.


© GrandTheftAuto.net 2018. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Invision Community

By using GTAForums.com, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Site de l'activité parapente de la fédération Française de Vol Libre – agrément ministériel du 4 décembre 1974 N° 75S131 1 place du Général Goiran 06100 NICE – connexion - contact - plan du site - mentions légales
Mycket webbhotell för lite pengar
Webbhotell med VIP-Support
Full flexibilitet. Maximal prestanda.
Masser af webhotel for pengene
Webhotel med VIP-Support til virksomheder
Din helt egen server med ultimativ frihed

				Webhosting for private and business
Surftown Denmark | Surftown Sweden


It’s #nationalcoffeeday—and to that we say, TGFC (as in, Thank Goodness for Coffee).
Reese, who speaks to no one before her morning cup, takes hers with a splash of milk, no sugar.
And please brew it super strong. “My husband thinks I drink sludge,” she says, “but I think strong coffee is delish.”
Hands-down, Reese’s favorite coffee is church coffee (yep, the kind they serve at church on Sundays). But at home she usually makes chicory coffee from the legendary Café Du Monde in New Orleans.
“I love to drink it out of a happy mug with a cute saying—it just puts me in a good mood to start the day,” she says.
We’ll drink to that.
Hey y’all! Welcome to the Draper James blog. This is my little slice of space to share the things I love most about life in the South: the people, the parties, the food, and the fun! It’s everything the Draper James brand stands for. I hope you like it.
Questo vestito finito è stato adattato e fotografata Bridesire.it. Tutti i diritti riservati. Non autorizzata di copia / riproduzione questa immagine è severamente proibito.

Spediamo In oltre 200 Paesi.
Tempo di sartoria: 7-15 giorni lavorativi. Vedi i dettagli >>
Tempo di spedizione: 3-5 giorni lavorativi. Vedi i dettagli >>
Fateci sapere cosa ne pensi di questo articolo, o condividere la tua opinione con gli altri clienti. Fate i vostri commenti si concentrano solo su questo articolo. Si prega di essere si raccomanda che le recensioni non appropriato saranno cancellati e non pubblicati. 
Per qualsiasi domanda o richiesta per questo articolo? Si prega di contattare il servizio clienti. (Il nostro rappresentante cliente dovrà tornare a voi entro 24 ore.)

        ©2006-2019 Bridesire.it Tutti i diritti riservati. 
        
Grüneberg - Schule
Gemeinschaftsgrundschule der Stadt KölnPrimarstufe
 

Pirates
Nach unserem Karnevalsmotto 2012 besuchten alle Kinder der dritten und vierten Klassen Ende Mai das englische Theaterstück „Lizzy and the pirate“. Im Englischunterricht wurden die Piraten und das Theaterstück natürlich besonders intensiv besprochen. 
 
 
Impressum

				Heute				20


				Gestern				20


				Woche				129


				Monat				614


				Jahr 2017				40714


						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.					
X
					

			Trending:		
The assassins who ambushed Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul on Oct. 2 must have figured they were protected. Not only is the consulate where Khashoggi was lured to his death technically Saudi Arabian property under diplomatic law, but the killers were operating on Turkish soil — some of the most dangerous terrain for a journalist on Earth.
Khashoggi was a contributing columnist for The Washington Post and editor-in-chief of Al-Arab News Channel. Publicly critical of the atrocious human rights record of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, he was targeted by the prince’s henchmen — a killing exposed by Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
“Whitewashing such barbarity,” Erdogan explained while ratting out the Saudis, “will of course injure and wound the conscience of all humanity.”
Most Americans (with one prominent exception) would agree with that sentiment. But coming from Erdogan, it was an expression of almost pure cynicism. Under his rule, the Turkish government has seized more newspapers, taken over more television stations and imprisoned more journalists than any regime in the world.
In its annual report on press freedom, Reporters Without Borders ranks Turkey 157th out of 180 nations worldwide. Yes, this NATO country controlled for the past decade by an Islamicist trails Russia and barely edges out Iraq. Erdogan is one of Reporters Without Borders’ notorious “predators” of press freedom — a rogues’ gallery of tyrants personally committed to ensuring their own people know only propaganda.
Usually Erdogan’s government simply lies about what it’s doing. In a recent BBC interview, an Erdogan stooge named Gulnur Aybet quibbled with a finding by the Committee to Protect Journalists that Turkey was No. 1 in the dubious category of imprisoning journalists. “There are people,” she said, “who have written in that form that their profession is ‘journalist,’ but they are not necessarily journalists.’”
This must strike those arrested solely for what they’ve written as insane. Three weeks after Jamal Khashoggi’s killing, an Istanbul court sentenced three journalists for a now-shuttered pro-Kurdish news outlet to prison for the crime of “insulting the president.”
It’s tempting to quip that if that same transgression were a crime in the United States, we’d need more prisons. I realize the situation in Turkey is no laughing matter — it’s a threat to the world order — but Erdogan is so comically insecure he begs to be ridiculed.
Last year, Nevsin Mengü, an anchorwoman with CNN’s Turkish affiliate, was fired after reporting on Erdogan’s meeting with Donald Trump. Her sin seems to have been informing viewers that the two presidents’ session lasted only 23 minutes. As she told the Atlantic Monthly: “Erdogan told our Ankara office: ‘I want your boss to take care of this woman,’ so they took me off air.”
If you think that is thin-skinned, four years ago Turkish cops carted a 16-year-old to jail for saying during a student protest that Erdogan was a thief. If truth were a defense, the boy would have earned an A. Turkey’s ruling party has become a kleptocracy. Months earlier, Erdogan was heard on a surreptitious recording instructing his son to hide millions of dollars in incriminating cash from anti-corruption investigators. Erdogan responded with his typical torrent of contradictory bluster, mendacity and threats. Although he described the recordings as “complete lies,” he conceded that his phone had been tapped, but said the real outrage was the taping itself, which he termed “Turkey’s biggest eavesdropping scandal of all time.”
Two weeks ago, the top five editors and columnists from the opposition party daily Sözcü were indicted for “willingly and knowingly” aiding a terrorist organization. The organization referred to is the wreckage of a political party once ruled by Fethullah Gulen, a 77-year-old imam in self-exile in Pennsylvania. Gulen is a convenient bogeyman for Erdogan, but what made the arrests of the Sözcü journalists so pernicious is that they detest Gulen. Erdogan is so paranoid that in Turkey, the enemy of my enemy is … my enemy.
Any journalism school student could see through this ruse, although it takes moxie to speak out. Once such student, Berivan Bila, was detained three weeks ago for writing: “Journalism School Lesson No. 1: Journalism is not a Crime.” She, too, was charged under the ubiquitous pretext of “insulting the president.”
After a recent trip to New York for a U.N. meeting, Erdogan kicked off the opening of the Turkish school year with a speech saying that other world leaders also fear the media in their countries, adding that he considers democracy and a free press incompatible. “Democracy is empowered by the people,” he said. “It is not possible for a politician to pursue sound politics if he or she is afraid of the media.”
But Erdogan hasn’t only persecuted the media — or Turks. Earlier this year, Turkish secret police operating in Kosovo kidnapped six Turkish nationals and took them to prison in Turkey. The men were not journalists, but teachers at a pro-Gulen school. Meanwhile, his police have regularly been arresting German-born journalists of Turkish ancestry — German citizens.
On Sept. 11, the regime escalated things by arresting Max Zirngast, an Austrian student and journalist who is not Turkish at all. Born in the Alps region of Steiermark to Austrian parents, Zirngast developed an affection for Turkish culture from college friends in Vienna. He learned the language, became a committed socialist, began writing about politics (millennials!) and moved to Turkey. His writings came to the attention of the regime, with predictable results. He’s being held, without formal charges, in a filthy Turkish prison.
Recently, Zirngast authored a Washington Post op-ed. He sounds like a brave and eloquent young man. I’m no socialist, but I’d be proud to know him. I can’t say the same for President Erdogan. The larger question is whether, under his rule, Turkey is still a Western ally. His mad musings about democracy and freedom of the press weren’t throwaway lines. A momentous question of the 21st century is whether Islam and democracy are compatible. I believe they are — but not without an unfettered and courageous media in Islamic countries. Erdogan’s drivel is not merely idiotic; it’s dangerous. Freedom of the press is what makes democracy possible. I suspect this guy knows it, too. He doesn’t believe in democracy. Or freedom. Which means that at some point, the United States and its allies must ask themselves difficult questions: Why is his country still in NATO? Does the existence of NATO airbases on Turkish soil — bases used in the U.S. war on terror — give Erdogan carte blanche?
Here’s the rub, though: President Trump’s rhetoric about the press is often indistinguishable from President Erdogan’s. Shouting “fake news” at a campaign rally? We can take that. But an incumbent U.S. president who calls the media the “enemy of the people” is something else. So were the chants at Trump rallies, whenever Hillary Clinton’s name arose, of “Lock her up!” Similar chants erupted as former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn headed to court last week.
Related Articles


			SB37 would undermine the state economy to prop up a failed status quo		




			Has the business community had enough?		




			The comeback of Notre Dame		




			He is risen: Political Cartoons		




			Newsom is overplaying his hand in bid to lower drug prices		

Donald Trump isn’t the only American politician who speaks in ugly ways about the media or political opponents. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the 29-year-old New York barista who won election to Congress this year as a Democratic-Socialist, didn’t like a recent Politico story about her. So she attacked the press on Twitter, saying that newspapers were mainly good for birdcage lining. It’s no accident that Donald Trump Jr. expressed solidarity. Meanwhile, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who should know better, has started a full-blown feud with his hometown paper, the Fresno Bee.
Is this all Trump’s fault? Obviously not. The mainstream media have been hostile. The Obama Justice Department prosecuted more journalists for leaks than all previous presidents combined. This doesn’t count Judith Miller — jailed for contempt of court by a compliant judge egged on by a vindictive special prosecutor.
The lesson here is that when Trump says, “We don’t have a country without a border,” there’s a better way of thinking about immigration — and democracy. A country without freedom of the press is not a country worth defending.
Carl M. Cannon is executive editor and Washington Bureau chief of RealClearPolitics.
Get the latest news delivered daily!
A blog on Whisky and Wine

Comments are closed.

Log in to your Texas Health Aetna Member Portal.
Have you experienced exceptional care coordination?
Share your success story now
Log in to Producer World.
Log in to Texas Health Aetna’s secure provider website via NaviNet®.
Medical identity theft happens when someone steals your personal or health insurance information. They use it to get medical care, prescriptions, insurance payouts, even surgery. It’s a lot like regular identify theft. It can damage your credit rating. Cost you money and take time to clear up. Even hurt your chances to get some jobs. And it's happening more and more in the United States.
Be careful with your member ID card.

It could be used to get medical services or drugs. And these will be on your medical record permanently. If your card is missing, lost or stolen, notify Texas Health Aetna Member Services right away.
Keep personal information personal.

Don’t give out your insurance ID, Social Security or driver’s license numbers on the phone or by mail to just anyone. Make sure you initiated the contact. And make sure there is a valid reason for giving out the number.
Be on guard even if someone claims to be from Texas Health Aetna.

We avoid asking for your Social Security number. However, there are times we need it. For example, if you:
If you are uneasy giving information to someone who says they are from Texas Health Aetna – DON’T. Instead, call the Member Services number on your ID card. Ask to have your call directed to the department asking for the information. That way, you can be sure you are giving the information to Texas Health Aetna.
Make sure “free” is free.

If you visit a free clinic, make sure it’s free. Don’t show your ID card for any reason.
Review health care information.

Take time to read mailed Explanation of Benefits (EOB) statements or online claims. Even if they are marked, “This is not a bill." Look for:
Check your credit report.

Identity thieves can run up medical costs in your name. The bills can be mailed to another address. You won’t know unless you check your report. Or you get a call from a collection agency.
You can get a credit report for free. Visit the Federal Trade Commission website to learn how.
Texas Health Aetna COO Named 'Up and Comer'
Texas Health Aetna COO on Three Methods for Improving Patient Care
Texas Health Aetna: Improving member experience, quality of care
Leveraging the strengths of two leading organizations, Texas Health Aetna is blurring the lines of traditional health care plans and health systems to create a truly integrated solution that’s simple to navigate while putting the member’s experience first. The jointly-owned local health plan is committed to providing affordable, high-quality health care services and delivering customized care to members throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex.
Texas Health Aetna
 612 E. Lamar Blvd., Suite 100
 Arlington, TX 76011
Health benefits and health insurance plans are offered and/or underwritten by Texas Health + Aetna Health Plan Inc. and Texas Health + Aetna Health Insurance Company (Texas Health Aetna). Each insurer has sole financial responsibility for its own products. Texas Health Aetna are affiliates of Texas Health Resources and of Aetna Life Insurance Company and its affiliates (Aetna). Aetna provides certain management services to Texas Health Aetna.
Self-funded plans are administered by Texas Health + Aetna Health Insurance Company.
This material is for information only and is not an offer or invitation to contract. An application must be completed to obtain coverage. Health benefits and health insurance plans contain exclusions and limitations. Providers are independent contractors and not our agents. Provider participation may change without notice. We do not provide care or guarantee access to health services. Not all health services are covered. See plan documents for a complete description of benefits, exclusions, limitations and conditions of coverage. Plan features and availability are subject to change and may vary by location. If you are in a plan that requires the selection of a primary care physician and your primary care physician is part of an integrated delivery system or physician group, your primary care physician will generally refer you to specialists and hospitals that are part of the delivery system or physician group. Information is believed to be accurate as of the production date; however, it is subject to change.
Physicians on the medical staff practice independently and are not agents or employees of the hospital or Texas Health Resources.
 The head of a Turkish media group was remanded in custody on Friday evening in capital Ankara for his alleged involvement in the assassination of Russian Ambassador Andrey Karlov, according to a judicial source.
A criminal court remanded Guru Media Broadcast Group Chairman Hayreddin Aydinbas on charges of "association in plotting manslaughter", the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to restrictions on talking to the media, said.
Aydinbas gave his testimony to Adem Akinci from the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on Wednesday. 
Karlov was shot and killed in Ankara on Dec.19 during an art exhibition when he was delivering a speech. 
Turkey-Russia relations were tested after the assassination. However, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Tukey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan declared the shooting a "provocation" designed to undermine bilateral ties.

Source: Anadolu Agency

Turkey is a partner of the project that developed the U.S. F-35 fighter jet and made "serious investments" towards this effort, Turkey's foreign minister said Read More » 
Turkey is a partner of the project that developed the U.S. F-35 fighter jet and made "serious investments" towards this effort, Turkey's foreign minister said Read More » 
Well past 100, a centenarian from Brazil decided this year to celebrate her birthday Turkish style, among the fabled fairy Read More » 
At least 344 irregular migrants were held across Turkey on Friday, according to multiple security sources.  
In the northwestern Read More » 
Introduction
Far right rhetoric and jihadi-inspired terrorist incidents have derailed progress on the minority protection initiatives begun in earnest with the Read More » 
The European political landscape has been changing gradually from left to right wing since the end of the Cold War. Read More » 
You don't have permission to access /packages/
on this server.

Additionally, a 403 Forbidden
error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request.
No fewer than four UN aid workers were killed in a Thursday night attack coordinated by Boko Haram insurgents at Rann community in Kala Balge Local Government of Borno State.
A female aid worker was also missing while one other sustained injuries in the attack.
Samantha Newport, Head of Communications, UNICEF Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), confirmed the incident to News Agency of Nigeria on Friday in Maiduguri.

Newport said two of the deceased were personnel of UN client organization, International Organisation of Migration ( IOM), deployed in Rann as camp managers.
She added that others killed were a medical doctor working as a consultant with UNICEF and an aid worker with International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) affiliate organization.
The UNICEF communications head said a female nurse was abducted, while another female aid worker was injured in the attack.
She explained that all the deceased personnel were Nigerians, adding that the world body
would soon issue a statement on the incident.
Meanwhile, competent sources in Rann told NAN that the insurgents attacked the town at about 7 pm on Thursday.
The source added that the insurgents, moving on gun trucks and motorcycles, infiltrated the town and attacked a military base and a displaced persons’ camp.
Military authorities have yet to comment on the incident.
Source: NAN
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. 


 Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
 Notify me of new posts by email.


With the internet making research easier, who do you trust when you’re handing out a big wad of cash? Top models on a paid vacation strutting around in bikinis? Other social influencers who have never been to the venue? People who get paid to endorse but have no reputation to uphold? Two competing documentaries take on that kind of big cash caveats in hindsight buyer beware films: Netflix’s ‘Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Was” and Hulu’s Fyre Fraud.”
Hulu’s documentary “Fyre Fraud” is a cautionary tale about how con men used social media to market a music event that went viral aided by rapper Ja Rule, Instagram and other social media influencers. These are rich and mostly white people on their way to party central. But that’s only if you like to party with strangers in a strange place in hopes of rubbing shoulders with the rich or social-media-famous.
Hulu’s documentary benefits greatly from an exclusive interview with the convicted con-man behind it all: Bill McFarland. He’s alternately cocky and your best bud and the down-on-his-luck humbled best bud who needs your help. You’ll see the second work on one man to the level of desperate depravity in Netflix’s film.
Directed by Jenner Furst and Julia Willoughby Nason, this documentary tries to vary the talking heads and bad cam borrowed video with topical clips and funny snippets (e.g. from an old cartoon). Beginning with an awkwardly derogatory setup, Hulu’s scripting joins in the millennial hatefest. We see an anonymous cheery two-story yellow house and then a sad sofa when a voiceover gives us the scenario: “You’re living in your parents’ basement” and “you pull out your phone which you look at a hundred times an hour” and you see your dream vacation on a “deserted island owned by Pablo Escobar.” No specifics, but like a perfume commercial there “was music, private planes and beautiful women swimming on an islands with drugs.” And you think, “Man that’s about as sexy as things can get.”
If you’re really in that situation, you are a red flag who can’t see the other red flags waving. If your main inspiration is to be an influencer or rub shoulders with a rapper like Ja Rule, you’re in trouble. If you think music festival in the first-stop shop for US scammers–the Bahamas–is “history in the making” you need to review history.
I’ve never really understood the allure of Burning Man and even Coachella. I’m a fan of Law & Order on the small screen and in real life. These festivals just didn’t spring up into a full flurry of fun. Burning Man began in 1986 on a San Francisco beach (Baker Beach)  with a small group of 35. Moved to Black Rock desert in Nevada in 1990 the festival has grown creating environmental concerns. Coachella began at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA in 1999. It returned in 2001 and grew over a decade to its present glory and reputation.
Fyre Festival purported to be a first-time full-blown festival, starting big to go even bigger but was actually a promotional gambit for an app according to the documentaries. The app angst is more thoroughly explored in Netflix’s “Fyre:
For a year before entering grad school, I worked at the world’s largest travel agency (Japan Travel Bureau International) so there are a few things I can tell you about travel. Research where you’re going. Check reviews of the venue. See if there have been complaints against the company sponsoring or organizing the event. Look at the weather reports and calendar of events.
You have to wonder with all the natural beauty, the music and the models, why would they need a million dollar treasure hunt give-away and just who was the man behind this madness? There were the basics about the Bahamas as Calvin Wells asks “Who orders 2 million worth of booze?” with a duty of 45%. Yes. You got that number right and when you stream you can stop, rewind and play that number back.
McFarland was the man behind Magnises which had the big draw for New Yorkers–an extra perk townhouse that was supposed to be a place to go and meet hot shots, but the “people who hung out there were not the people advertised.”  You still had a “place to go and meet people like you” but one person describes Magnises as “‘The Office’ with no redeeming qualities.” In this scenario Billy McFarland was Michael Scott (Steve Carell) and Grant was Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson). There was “no actual business; it’s just guys being in business.”
Netflix’s “Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Was is all about business. It begins with the promotional shoot and in many ways, this slicker product directed by Chris Smith (“The Yes Men”) is a promotional shoot. Hulu did pay for the exclusive interview with Billy McFarland, but the Netflix documentary has behind-the-scenes video from Jerry Media.
Jerry Media was the company that built up the models cavorting in bikini bait. In the Netlix movie, they are a bunch of well-meaning professionals but they were also the ones deleting customer complaints on social media. This gets trickier when in the Hulu version, the staff has doubts and decide to stop selling tickets when they realize the infrastructure and the numbers don’t match but there’s a softer sell in the Netflix doc.
Social influencers were promised of one-bedroom three-person villas on the beach for one post and others were given $250 for a post. The concept of reputation doesn’t even come into the equation. Their followers are faceless pawns in their power pyramid.
Yet reportedly, the idea for the documentary came from Jerry Media who approached Vice. The official Netflix statement about Jerry Media involvement is: “at no time did they, or any others we worked with, request favorable coverage in our film, which would be against our ethics.”
In the documentary, the promises are made that Fyre Fest is “biggest event of the decade I promise you” and writer Gabrielle Bluestone remembers thinking it was “the coolest party that you’ve ever seen advertised.”
The interviews are beautifully shot in spacious rooms with uncluttered backgrounds. It’s as if not one lives or works in those spaces. There’s more on the app that never will be (David Low) and product designer Shiyuan Deng talks about how she went from believer to disappointed product designer.
There were brave people who waved red flags. Mick Purzycki mapped out sewage calculations. Kieth Siilats talked about other logistical concerns, but was treated as nothing more than a yoga consultant.
When questions were raised, McFarland’s response was: “We’re not a problems focus group; we’re a solutions oriented group. We need to have a positive attitude.” McFarland was either “unflappable” or  “totally delusional.” In reality, he was a con man.
The worst example of it all was Andy King, a white-haired rosy-faced clean cut gay guy who was willing to suck dick…yes, really, fellatio, in order to help Billy McFarland’s Fyre Fest get around some legal problems.
While both documentaries detail the losses of the local people, Netflix goes specific. Mary Ann Rolle of the Exuma Point Restaurant was roped in last minute to help feed the people. She was left with debt and had to pay the people. It’s a small island and she rubs shoulders with these people and their problems every day. She spent $50,000 of her own savings. The documentary has called attention to her plight and a GoFundMe campaign has started.
Rolle’s situation isn’t unusual for those touched by the godless grifting of McFarland. We learn that a few people used their own personal credit cards to help fund McFarland’s folly. That’s the kind of family that McFarland built–people who in his desperate moments needed it to succeed and couldn’t walk away.

It’s hard to feel sorry for the people who took this journey in Netflix’s version when you see one man proudly proclaim he and his best buds wanted privacy. After arriving at the camp site where they discover their luxury tents are actually leftover FEMA tents and McFarland has announced that people should just run and claim a tent, Justin Liao remembers, “Our strategy was to kind of ransack all the tents around us. My buddy pissed on a few of the beds.” Liao who is the head of Global Business at Pulse Lab in New York City and a graduate of Vanderbilt University according to LinkedIn seems to have the kind of mindset of the people behind Fyre Fest: self-serving, without ethics and willing to step on a few people to better his own position. Liao got so much heat on Twitter, he seems to have closed his account but he’s still on Instagram, for now.
Together, Hulu’s “Fyre Fraud” and Netflix’s “Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Was” give us a complete picture of social media marketing and the
 

			I've written for the Rafu Shimpo, LA Weekly, LA Times, Examiner.com and, more recently, the Pasadena Weekly and RogerEbert.com. I formerly worked for a dot-com more interested in yodeling than its customers.			
				View all posts by Jana J. Monji			

Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 Notify me of new posts via email.







This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 984 other followers







 
		                Sign me up!                    


Di fronte all'umanità di un abitante locale, che decide di pagare di tasca sua un passaggio in automobile per Le Caporali, Antonella e Jill si commuovono e non riescono a trattenere le lacrime. Sarà il primo di una lunga serie di pianti?
Torna su

          The federal government routinely awards contracts to companies with
          histories of misconduct, including
          …

            contract fraud and other
            violations. POGO believes that providing this website will help to
            improve contracting decisions and increase public knowledge of how
            the government spends billions of taxpayer dollars each year.
            Read more…


In January 2015, FedEx reported that employees Michael Luevanos and Ernesto Luebanos had stolen numerous boxes of cell phones from a FedEx facility in Yuma, Arizona. Luevanos and Luebanos were arrested and charged with theft and trafficking in stolen property. Both men pleaded guilty. In June 2015, Luebanos was sentenced to 36 months of supervised probation and ordered to pay $54,000 restitution to Sprint.
1100 G Street, NW Suite 500Washington, DC 20005
Phone: (202) 347-1122Fax: (202) 347-1116
Email: info@pogo.org
Founded in 1981, the Project On Government Oversight is a nonpartisan independent watchdog that champions good government reforms. POGO’s investigations into corruption, misconduct, and conflicts of interest achieve a more effective, accountable, open, and ethical federal government.
POGO's SecureDrop available via Tor: http://dqeasamlf3jld2kz.onion
HARVEY, Ill. -- A Chicago suburb whose police department mishandled years of rape investigations has settled lawsuits seeking damages for the shortcomings.
Seven women filed lawsuits in federal court against Harvey's police department and former chief Andrew Joshua, alleging the failure to submit rape kits for testing violated their constitutional rights to due process and equal protection.
In one case, an alleged lapse by Harvey police allowed a Cook County correctional officer continue to molest his stepdaughter for years. Harvey agreed to pay $1.2 million to that victim. A second case, involving two women, was settled for $241,250. The figures for a third case weren't released.
Harvey spokesman Sean Howard said in a statement Tuesday the suburb was hopeful the settlements will bring "some closure and comfort" to the victims.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Filed in: News 

Online Public File		  • 
		

				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		2501 West Bradley Place Chicago, Illinois 60618  •
		Copyright © 2019, WGN		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 
 Ningún producto
   Confirmar  
 Marcas
 Miniálbum fabricado en MDF de cuatro páginas con pestañas. Contiene 2 anillas en color latón. Tamaño de cada página: 15x15cm. Espesor del MDF: 3mm.
 Miniálbum fabricado en MDF de cuatro páginas con bordes fantasía y pestañas. Posee tres orificios para realizar la encuadernación mediante anillas o lazos (no incluidos). Tamaño de cada página: 15x10,5cm. Espesor del MDF: 3mm.
 Miniálbum fabricado en MDF de cuatro páginas con bordes fantasía. Posee tres orificios para realizar la encuadernación mediante anillas o lazos (no incluidos). Tamaño de cada página: 14,7x10,5cm. Espesor del MDF: 3mm.
 Miniálbum fabricado en MDF de cuatro páginas con bordes fantasía y diferente largo cada uno para conseguir un efecto de volumen. Posee tres orificios para realizar la encuadernación mediante anillas o lazos (no incluidos). Tamaño de cada página: comprendido entre 9x10cm y 9x15cm. Espesor del MDF: 3mm.
 Miniálbum de cartón marrón y gris tipo archivador con 3 anillas. Posee en su interior 6 páginas de cartón gris. Dimensiones del archivador cerrado: 10,5x12,5x4,5cm. Dimensiones de las páginas: 11,5x7,5cm. Espesor del cartón: 2mm.
 Miniálbum fabricado en MDF de cuatro páginas con bordes fantasía y cuya primera página tiene forma de marco. Posee tres orificios para realizar la encuadernación mediante anillas o lazos (no incluidos). Tamaño de cada página: 20x15cm. Espesor del MDF: 3mm.
 Miniálbum en cartón gris compuesto por 8 páginas con pestañas y 2 anillas metálicas color plata. Tamaño de cada página: 12,5x12,7cm. Espesor del cartón: 1,5mm.
 Mini álbum para decorar en cartón blanco. Incluye 6 páginas de 20x15cm aprox y una anilla con bisagra para su montaje.
 Mini album en cartón que también puede utilizarse desplegado sobre una superficie. Tamaño plegado: 16,1x16,4 cm. Tamaño desplegado: 55,8x16,4cm. Contiene cintas para unir las diferentes piezas.
 Mini álbum para decorar en cartón blanco. Incluye 6 páginas de 20x15cm aprox y dos anillas con bisagra para su montaje.
 Mini álbum para decorar en cartón blanco. Incluye 6 páginas de 20x15cm aprox y dos anillas con bisagra para su montaje.
 Cuadernillo de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección Cute & Co Contenido: cuaderno con tapas estampadas y 10 cartulinas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio Travel Journal o utilizarlo como miniálbum. Tamaño: 11x21cm Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuaderno de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección Hello Beautiful Contenido: cuaderno con tapas estampadas y 10 cartulinas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio art journal o utilizarlo como miniálbum. Tamaño: A5 (14,8x21cm) Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuadernillo de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección Hello Beautiful Contenido: cuaderno con tapas estampadas y 10 cartulinas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio Travel Journalo utilizarlo como miniálbum. Tamaño: 11x21cm Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuaderno de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección Love in Bloom Contenido: cuaderno con tapas estampadas y 10 cartulinas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio art journal o utilizarlo como miniálbum. Tamaño: A5 (14,8x21cm) Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuadernillo de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección Love in Bloom Contenido: cuaderno con tapas estampadas y 10 cartulinas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio Travel Journalo utilizarlo como miniálbum. Tamaño: 11x21cm Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuaderno de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección New Moon Contiene 10 páginas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio art journal. Tamaño: A5 (14,8x21cm) Marca: Piatek 13 Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
 Cuaderno de hojas blancas y portada decorada con motivos coordinados con la colección When We First Met Contiene 10 páginas blancas para plasmar tu creatividad y crear tu propio art journal. Tamaño: A5 (14,8x21cm) Marca: Piatek 13 Gramaje de la tapa y páginas interiores: 240gsm
Álbumes para escrapearLos álbumes para escrapear son una forma particular de practicar scrapbooking.Al tener un formato más compacto, es ideal cuando queremos crear un álbum con pocas fotos o para un momento concreto o preciso como documentar un viaje o pequeña escapada, un encuentro entre amigas, las primeras fotos del bebé, un cumpleaños, etc.Fórralos con papeles decorados y embellécelos con adornos para conseguir un resultado armonioso.Estos álbumes está constituidos por páginas rígidas fabricads en cartón grueso o DM.
Álbumes para escrapear

Los álbumes para escrapear son una forma particular de practicar scrapbooking.

Al tener un formato más compacto, es ideal cuando queremos crear un álbum con pocas fotos o para un momento concreto o preciso como documentar un viaje o pequeña escapada, un encuentro entre amigas, las primeras fotos del bebé, un cumpleaños, etc.

Fórralos con papeles decorados y embellécelos con adornos para conseguir un resultado armonioso.

Estos álbumes está constituidos por páginas rígidas fabricads en cartón grueso o DM.
© 2008-2018 Creactividades S.L. es una sociedad inscrita en el Registro Mercantil de Jaén, en el folio 205 del tomo 423, inscripción 1º de la hoja J-16.274, con CIF B23613805


                              RELATED POSTS
                              






Postar um comentário










                          BLOG_CMT_createIframe('https://www.blogger.com/rpc_relay.html', '0');
                        







September 04, 2018
                    



Peter Kim                       
                    


Risk Management   

Allegations of sexual harassment have made headlines across virtually all areas of society: churches, entertainment, politics, businesses, non-profits, sports, and education. In October 2017, the #MeToo hashtag was used by more than 4.7 million people on Facebook during the first 24 hours to disclose stories of harassment and abuse. Time magazine even named "The Silence Breakers" as its 2017 Person of the Year, recognizing those who came forward with their stories to help spark a nationwide movement to break the silence. The movement has resulted in countless executives being fired, public figures disgraced, and even criminal charges.


While the details of the sexual harassment allegations being brought to light may vary, the extent of sexual harassment in the workplace is significant. In a November 2017 poll by Quinnipiac University, 60% of women reported they had experienced sexual harassment, with 69% of those incidents taking place at work. Men have also been victims, with 17% of sexual harassment claims filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) coming from men.


Four Steps to Reduce Risk

How can an organization lower the risk of sexual harassment in their workplace? PHLY recommends taking the following steps:


1) Be compliant with the law. Have a written policy that explicitly forbids sexual harassment as it is defined by the EEOC. Train all employees (including part-time and contract employees) on your policy and how they can respond to events they experience or observe. Assure employees that they will be protected against retaliation. Ensure all allegations are investigated and resolution reached in a timely and complete manner, with privacy respected for all parties. Finally, review your policy with legal counsel and/or third party human resources consultants.


2) Remain vigilant. Ensure that your policy is communicated regularly and enforced consistently. Many organizations communicate their sexual harassment policies through annual training, and in some states this is mandated for management staff. Beyond the training, organizations must ensure that these policies are followed by all employees. Without consistent enforcement, training will not be effective. In a 2015 study, the EEOC stated that while trainings appear to help in educating what constitutes sexual harassment in the workplace, there is not clear evidence that the training changes attitudes or behaviors. Therefore, organizations must be actively engaged to identify sexual harassment and to enforce their own policies when harassment is discovered.


3) Start at the top. Sexual harassment is as much about corporate culture as it is about policies and procedures. Examining and changing corporate culture begins with senior leadership. Top executives need to examine their own attitudes and actions, be vocal advocates for anti-harassment efforts, and incorporate behaviors at the C-suite on down that shows respect for all employees and zero-tolerance for would-be harassers. In addition, diversity in management positions can help to increase awareness and promote an anti-harassment culture.


4) Be creative. Honestly assess your sexual harassment prevention efforts to determine if they are stale and ineffective, or accessible and current. Consider these ideas for breathing life into your anti-harassment efforts:

Available Resources

Philadelphia Insurance Companies can assist policyholders with implementing sexual harassment training, identifying additional resources for managers, and accessing legal expertise. If you have Employment Practices Liability Insurance coverage with PHLY, the following resources available are available to you at no additional cost:


Training: Through PHLY's SmarterNow learning management system, you can access the following training modules, with no usage limitations:

Learn More


Pre-claim expertise: The Wilson Elser Hotline provides PHLY policyholders with two free hours of legal consultation on any incident that could result in an Employment Practices Liability claim. The two free hours are on a per-occurrence basis. The intent of this hotline is to help guide the calling organization to either prevent a claim from being made or to limit the exposure, in the event that the incident does give rise to a claim. Information provided through this hotline is kept completely confidential from PHLY.


Learn More
Learn More

IMPORTANT NOTICE - The information and suggestions presented by Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company in this E-Brochure is for your consideration in your loss prevention efforts. They are not intended to be complete or definitive in identifying all hazards associated with your business, preventing workplace accidents, or complying with any safety related, or other, laws or regulations. You are encouraged to alter them to fit the specific hazards of your business and to have your legal counsel review all of your plans and company policies.




ThinkPHLY
ThinkPHLY

                            © 
                            
                                var d = new Date();
                                document.write(d.getFullYear());
                            
                            Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp. One Bala Plaza, suite 100, Bala Cynwyd, PA 19004
                        

                                            Pay a bill, look up a claim or status 
                                  or review your policy information.
                                        



Required
                                                    








Your feedback will be anonymous and will be send directly to phladelhi insurance team to help improve our services
Your browser is no longer supported. For the best experience of this website, please upgrade to a newer version or another browser.
Your browser appears to have cookies disabled. For the best experience of this website, please enable cookies in your browser 
We'll assume we have your consent to use cookies, for example so you won't need to log in each time you visit our site.Learn more
19 April 2019 11:00 am
18 April 2019 2:58 pm
18 April 2019 2:22 pm
18 April 2019 2:13 pm
In the midst of several high-profile company voluntary arrangements (CVAs), retailers are fighting to prove that evolution is the key to survival – particularly when it comes to the high street.
Entries are now open for the Drapers Digital Awards - recognising the best of the best in ecommerce across the fashion industry in the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
 Find out more and enter 
18 April 2019 2:22 pm
18 April 2019 8:57 am
12 April 2019 6:14 am
10 April 2019 1:51 pm
Gym King’s Jay Parker has built a thriving athleisure brand in a competitive market before his 30th birthday. He talks to Drapers about keeping the business fighting fit and cracking the US.
Drapers Footwear Awards 19 will recognise and celebrate the footwear's very best from across the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
                                                    We have 18 exciting categories up for contest, including International Footwear Business of the Year and Best Sustainable Initiative of the Year.
                                                    
Find out more and enter 
9 April 2019 11:04 am
4 April 2019 11:10 am
19 March 2019 2:15 pm
13 March 2019 10:18 am
With her womenswear retailer Blaiz, Stephanie Mordehachvili brings the best of Latin American brands to London shoppers.
17 April 2019 10:58 am
12 April 2019 3:47 pm
12 April 2019 2:11 pm
11 April 2019 11:23 pm
Dedicated footwear retailers came out on top of Drapers’ Hit or Miss review of Intu Watford’s spring 19 offer, despite some strong product in fashion stores.
Entries are now open for the Drapers Digital Awards - recognising the best of the best in ecommerce across the fashion industry in the UK and Ireland.
                                                    
 Find out more and enter 
17 April 2019 9:16 am
15 April 2019 6:36 am
12 April 2019 3:35 pm
12 April 2019 11:18 am
Gym King’s Jay Parker has built a thriving athleisure brand in a competitive market before his 30th birthday. He talks to Drapers about keeping the business fighting fit and cracking the US.

3 August 2017
By Pui-Guan Man

Luxury brand house Kering and Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba are working together to stamp out the sale of fake goods on the platform.
As part of the deal, Kering will dismiss its long-standing lawsuit filed against Alibaba and affiliate Alipay, which was filed in the US district court in New York in 2015.
Kering and Alibaba said they have formed a joint taskforce tackling online and offline counterfeiters. 
The companies said in a joint statement: “The new partnership represents a milestone in both parties’ investment and efforts to protect brands’ intellectual property rights.
“The companies have established a joint task force with the purpose of collaborating fully, exchanging useful information, and working closely with law enforcement bodies to take appropriate action against infringers of Kering’s brands identified with Alibaba’s advanced technology capabilities.”
5 February 2019Grace Whelan
Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba has reported its slowest sales growth in three years.
13 February 2019Grace Whelan
Revenues at grew 26.3% year on year to €13.7bn (£12bn) at luxury brand group Kering in its full-year results for 2018, thanks to a strong performance from Gucci.
11 March 2019Ana Santi
Luxury ecommerce site Farfetch has soaring revenues, and its retail technology has attracted high-profile clients such as Harrods. But can it keep investing and growing without turning a profit?
1 March 2019Grace Whelan
Full-year revenue rocketed 56% to $602m (£454m) at Farfetch in what it called a “blockbuster year” ended 31 December 2018, and it has announced a new deal to acquire JD.com’s Chinese luxury ecommerce platform, Toplife.
You must sign in to make a comment
Please remember that the submission of any material is governed by our Terms and Conditions and by submitting material you confirm your agreement to these Terms and Conditions. Links may be included in your comments but HTML is not permitted.
EMAP Publishing Limited Company number 
7880758 (England & Wales) Registered address: 
7th Floor, Vantage London, Great West Road,
Brentford, United Kingdom, TW8 9AG
Site powered by Webvision
Being injured due to a criminal attack in Hallandale Beach brings you the need to reach out to an experienced lawyer to help you navigate through the personal injury procedures. If you or a loved one happen to be the one who is injured, call (305) 285-1115 to talk to the Hallandale Beach crime victim compensation lawyers and wrongful death attorneys at the Wolfson Law Firm. Our consultations are free, and we never charge you a fee unless we make a recovery for you first.
Hallandale Beach is in the southeast corner of Broward County. It has a diverse population including a significant number of retirees. Hallandale Beach is widely popular with tourists because of the Gulfstream Park and Casino and the Mardi Gras Casino. It is bordered by Hollywood, Golden Beach, Pembroke Park and Miramar.
As an entertainment and retirement heaven, Hallandale Beach is a regular target of criminals. Being injured due to criminal accident may lead you to a consultation with our lawyers in the following capacities:
These are not all the crimes that could result in you being injured in Hallandale Beach, just the most common ones that our Miami injury attorneys have witnessed. Don’t hesitate to contact us if you have been injured in another type of criminal act. You may be eligible for compensation depending on the facts of you case.
Being personally injured as a crime victim in Hallandale Beach means that you may be able to claim damages. After getting medical help, the next step is to call a Broward crime victim injury lawyer to help you figure out who is liable for your injuries, because it could be decisive about which road to recovery you should take. In general, there are three of methods to consider.
The first one is claiming damages recovery from the criminal offender. If he is proven guilty and convicted by court, he will likely be legally responsible for paying you damages. It will only be an easy recovery if the criminal has assets – and most do not. The downside of this option is that in some cases, crime victims must wait for a long time until the offender is convicted, and sometimes, he remains out of reach of law enforcement authorities. If this is the case with you, then consider the next two options.
One of them allows you to claim damages recovery from another person, company or corporation. If the crime has occurred on the premises where you’ve been invited, such as malls, retail stores, nightclubs, gas stations, banks, apartments or condos, the party who controls these premises might be liable. They owe invitees a duty of care, meaning they must reasonably take all the necessary measures to prevent foreseeable crimes therein. When they breach this duty due to negligence, and it leads to crimes and personal injuries, these persons may be liable to pay for all the injury-related expenses and damages.
The third option is looking to the Florida Bureau of Victim Compensation. They won’t ask if anyone was convicted or not. They just want you to prove that your injuries have been sustained as a consequence of a criminal attack and they will compensate you for your economic injury-related expenses. While helpful, this avenue will not lead to full and fair compensation.
If you are a family member of murder victim, you may be able to claim damages as well. Laws allows for some specific forms of compensation for certain murder survivors as well. Losing a person close to you always mean going through mourning and emotional pain, and sometimes, loss of financial support. That’s why murder survivors may be able claim recovery for these and other wrongful-death-related expenses depending on the facts of your loss.
The Hallandale Beach crime victim attorneys at the Wolfson Law Firm have served the good folks from Florida for personal injury and wrongful death claims since 1963. Call (305) 285-1115 for your free consultation. We don’t ask for any fees until we recover for you. No matter what – don’t be a silent victim. Know your rights and get the justice that you and your family deserve.
Hallandale Beach Crime Victim Attorney | Broward County, Florida Accident Attorney
Shopper Points
Maximising your Tesco Clubcard and Nectar points!
Reports on various online forums suggest that Tesco Clubcard has been hit by another round of security breaches.
Over at our sister site, frequent flyer-focussed Head for Points, a reader wrote:
I’d like to let you know that the Tesco voucher theft problem is still happening.  I’ve had over £1000 (thousand!) stolen just over a week ago and all redeemed in one day in stores in the Kent area.  I had no idea of this issue until I googled the problem and found many articles on it!  Tesco have agreed to replace all the vouchers. 
Flyertalk has also seen some similar stories.

It is possible that these vouchers went missing in the post.  More likely, though, is that the relevant Tesco online account was hacked and replacement vouchers printed off and used.  Printing (almost) your full Clubcard number on your receipt, along with your current points balance, is not incredibly clever if you later discard the receipt outside the shop.
One way to prevent fraud is with Award Wallet.  This is an online app and website which automatically updates all of your loyalty point balances.  As long as you are happy entrusting your details to the service – and it has run for many years with no problems – you can manually check your balances very quickly (one click) each day or let them do it and email you every time it changes.  The basic service is free and worth a look.
Want to earn more Clubcard or Nectar points? Click here to visit the Shopper Points home page for the latest news and offers. Come back every day for new deals or join our email list.
Do you have a Clubcard or Nectar credit card?  If not, you can receive up to 20,000 FREE points for signing up!  Full details are in this article.
Do you convert Clubcard points into Avios or Virgin Flying Club? If you do, visit our sister site, Head for Points, which is full of tips for maximising your frequent flyer miles.
Shopper Points helps you earn more Tesco Clubcard and Nectar points! Visit every day to see our latest articles, follow us on Twitter and Facebook, or sign up for our FREE emails via this page or the box to your right.

  
2nd May 2019
PRIVACY POLICY
Copyright @ Shopper Points 2019



Blue Night – Blaue Nacht is the sixth book in Simone Buchholz’ Chastity Riley series and the first to be translated into English. I discovered the book last year in a book shop, not realizing it was part of a series, or I would have started with book one. Oddly, the English translation has the subtitle “Chastity Riley book 1”. Be it as it may, I’m so glad I finally read it. I love noir and this is noir at its best.
State attorney Chastity Riley has done a few stupid things and so she’s not working in the state attorney’s department anymore but for the witness protection. This bores her no end. Feeling she needs some change, she takes her car and drives to the country. The car breaks down and Chastity is stranded somewhere on the road. Where other people would look for the beauty around them, all she sees is a lack of streets and people. And too much countryside. Yikes. Barely gone for a few minutes, she misses Hamburg, the Reeperbahn, the seedy haunts, her ex-gangster lover Klatsche, and the bars where she drinks until the early hours. This beginning sets the tone and introduces a character who is witty, sarcastic, laconic, lyrical, and always different.
Back in Hamburg, she’s assigned to look after a man who has almost been killed. He’s been beaten up severely and has lost one finger. It looks a lot like retribution. With cunning, kindness, and a lot of beer, Chastity manages to get his trust. While he doesn’t reveal his identity, he gives her enough information to begin investigating a crime ring.
The story is definitely interesting and offers a look into the drug problems big cities with large ports like Hamburg face these days. Cheap, dangerous drugs, produced in the East, are distributed in the West with maximum profit. The people in charge are able to wash their money and while everyone knows it, the law can’t touch them.
As interesting as the story is, it pales in comparison to the cast of characters and the style. Chastity Riley is a loner at heart but one with a crowd of friends. Some were formerly criminals, some are policemen, bar tenders, restaurant owners. A charming element of the book is that they all get a voice. In between the regular chapters are chapters in which each of the protagonists, including the nameless man, the criminals, Chastity and her friends get their say. In some books this type of approach doesn’t work, but here it lifts the book to another level.
I read a lot of crime novels this year, but this is the one I liked the most. The voice is so unique, the style so brilliant that it can keep up with a lot of literary fiction that is published these days. And the mood and tone are reminiscent of some of the best noir I’ve read in recent years.
I read this in German, that’s why there are no quotes. Please visit Pat’s blog (added below) to get an idea of the style
Other reviews:
Pat – South of Paris Books
 
Glad you enjoyed it! (There’s a back story to the numbering, to do with publishers and rights and stuff, as you might imagine)
I thought so, still. It’s common not to start publishing series in translation with book 1 but to name it book 1?
I felt (and still feel) much more ambivalent about (parts of) it a few months after reviewing.
https://lizzysiddal.wordpress.com/2018/03/01/german-noir-2018-releases-3-blue-night-simone-buchholz/
I haven’t read your review yet, but I’m surprised you didn’t like it tat much. 

    Je vous accompagne pour identifier les blocages, peurs, croyances limitantes qui vous empêchent d'avancer. Je vous aide ensuite à vous en libérer par différents outils que je mets intuitivement à
    votre disposition.


     


    Je m'inspire, en particulier, du Travail de Byron Katie pour vous accompagner.


     


    L'objectif est de lâcher vos croyances pour révéler votre essence et ainsi être vous-même et faire vos propres choix en conscience.


     


    Ce travail se fait à votre rythme, tout en douceur et bienveillance.


     


     Modalités : Les séances peuvent avoir lieu à mon cabinet ou à distance par vidéo ou téléphone


     


Tarif : 60 € la séance individuelle d'1h30


     


    Plusieurs séances sont généralement nécessaires pour avancer. Nous en parlons ensemble lors de la première séance


     

2 december 2018
De politie heeft zaterdagnacht meerdere keren geschoten op drie verdachten van een woningoverval in Zaltbommel. Eén verdachte liep daarbij schotwonden op in zijn been.

Rond 00.40 werd een woning aan de Thorbeckestraat in Zaltbommel door drie personen overvallen toen de bewoners thuis kwamen. Daarbij brak de 43-jarige bewoner zijn kaak. Een vrouw en kind bleven ongedeerd. De bewoners werden door de overvallers onder schot gehouden, maar konden toch de politie alarmeren. Aangezien het politiebureau even verderop zit, was de politie snel aanwezig.
Wat volgde was een schietpartij op straat waarbij de politie meerdere schoten loste op de overvallers, die in hun auto wisten te vluchtten. De vluchtauto werd even later aangetroffen op de A2. Kort daarna werden nabij het tankstation De Lucht langs de A2 twee verdachten van 24 en 25 jaar aangehouden. Eén van hen bleek gewond aan zijn been. Hij werd voor het behandelen van zijn verwondingen onder politie-escort overgebracht naar het ziekenhuis.
De derde dader is vooralsnog spoorloos. De politie was bezig met een groot onderzoek op de A2, bij het tankstation en bij de woning. Daarvoor was een deel van de A2 enige tijd afgesloten.
The past weeks have seen a massive confrontational movement arise in France opposing President Emmanuel Macron’s “ecological” tax increase on gas. This movement combines many contradictory elements: horizontally organized direct action, a narrative of being “apolitical,” the participation of far-right organizers, and the genuine anger of the exploited. Clearly, neoliberal capitalism offers no solutions to climate change except to place even more pressure on the poor; but when the anger of the poor is translated into reactionary consumer outrage, that opens ominous opportunities for the far right. Here, we report on the yellow vest movement in detail and discuss the questions it raises.
A las barricadas: the yellow vest movement has provided a venue for people to revolt without giving up their identity as consumers.
In the buildup to the 2018 elections in the US, we heard a lot of arguments that it would be better for centrist politicians to win control of the government. But what happens when centrists come to power and use their authority to stabilize capitalism at the expense of the poor? One consequence is that far-right nationalists gain the opportunity to present themselves as rebels who are trying to protect “ordinary people” from the oppressive machinations of the government. In a time when the state can do precious little to mitigate the suffering that capitalism is causing, it can be more advantageous to be positioned outside the halls of power. Consequently, far-right nationalism may be able to gain more ground under centrist governments than under far-right governments.
In attempting to associate environmentalism, feminism, internationalism, and anti-racism with neoliberalism, centrists make it likely that at least some of the movements that arise against the ruling order will be anti-ecological, misogynistic, nationalistic, and racist. That works out well for centrists, because it enables them to present themselves to the world as the only possible alternative to far-right extremists. This is precisely the strategy that got Macron elected in his campaign against Marine Le Pen. In this regard, centrists and nationalists are loyal adversaries who seek to divide up all possible positions between themselves, making it impossible to imagine any real solution to the crises created by capitalism.
A social movement of anger and confusion.
In short: if the wave of nationalist victories still sweeping the globe eventually gives way to a centrist backlash, but anarchists and other revolutionaries are not able to popularize tactics and movements that adequately address the catastrophies that so many people are facing, that could pave the way for an even more extreme wave of far-right populism.
We should study populist social movements under centrist governments in order to identify the ways that far-right groups can hijack them—and figure out how we can prevent that. This is one of the reasons to pay close attention to the “yellow vest” movement unfolding right now in France under the arch-centrist President Macron.
The “yellow vest” movement shows the strange fractures that can open up under the contradictions of modern centrism: above all, the false dichotomy between addressing global warming and addressing the ravages of capitalism. This dichotomy is especially dangerous in that it gives nationalists a narrative with which to capitalize on economic crisis while discrediting environmentalism by associating it with state oppression.
Against the dictatorship of the rich: a banner seen near Nantes.
What is taking place in France is reminiscent of what happened in Brazil in 2013, when a movement against the rising cost of public transportation provoked a nationwide crisis. This crisis gave tens of thousands of people new experience with horizontal organizing and direct action, but it also opened the way for nationalists to gain ground by presenting themselves as rebels against the ruling order. There are two significant differences between Brazil in 2013 and France today, however. First, the movement in Brazil was initiated by anarchists, but grew too big too quickly for anarchist values to retain hegemony—whereas anarchists have never had leverage within the movement of the “yellow vests.” Second, the movement in Brazil took place under a supposedly leftist government, not a centrist one. The hijacking of the movement against the fare hike in Brazil set the stage for a chain of events that culminated in the electoral victory of Bolsonaro, an outright proponent of military dictatorship and extrajudicial mass murders. In France, the context seems even less promising.
What should anarchists do in a situation like this? We can’t side with the state against demonstrators who are already struggling to survive. Likewise, we can’t side with demonstrators against the natural environment. We have to establish an anti-nationalist position within anti-government protests and an anti-state position within ecological movements. The “yellow vest” movement provides an instructive opportunity for us to think about how to strategize in an era of three-sided conflicts that pit us against both nationalists and centrists.
Burning barricades.
Several weeks ago, the Macron government officially announced that, on January 1, 2019, it will once again increase taxes on gas, which will raise the price of gas in general. This decision was justified as a step in the transition to “green energy.”
Diesel vehicles comprise two thirds of vehicles in France, where diesel is less expensive than regular gas. After decades of political policies aimed at pushing people to buy cars that run on diesel, the government has decided that diesel fuels are no longer “eco-friendly” and therefore people must change their cars and habits. Macron reduced taxes on the income of the super-rich at the beginning of his administration; he has not taken steps to make the wealthy pay for the transition to more ecologically sustainable technology, even though the wealthy have been the ones to benefit from the profits generated by ecologically harmful industrial activity. Consequently, Macron’s ecological arguments for the gas tax been largely ignored. Many people see the decision to increase the tax on gas as yet another attack on the poor.
The French government is responsible for creating this false dichotomy between ecology and the needs of working people. Decades of spatial planning have concentrated economic activity and job opportunities in bigger metropolises and developed public transportation in those same areas while isolating rural areas, making cars necessary for a large part of the population. Without any other option, many people are now completely reliant on their cars to live and work.
Blocking a toll collection point.
In response to Macron’s announcement about the tax on gas, people started organizing on the internet. Several petitions against the increase of the price of gas became viral, such as this online petition that is about to reach a million signatures as this text goes to press. Then, on September 17, 2018, a driver organization denounced the “overtaxation of fuels,” inviting its members to send their gas receipts to President Macron along with letters explaining their disapproval. On October 10, 2018, two truck drivers created a Facebook event calling for a national blockade against the increase of gas prices on November 17, 2018. As a result, more and more groups appeared on Facebook and Twitter sharing videos in which people attack the president’s decision and explain how difficult their financial situations already are, emphasizing that increasing the taxes on gas will only make it worse.
On the eve of the national call, about 2000 groups across the country were announcing their intention to block roads, toll collection points, gas stations, and refineries, or at least to hold demonstrations.
In order to identify the participants during this day of action, demonstrators decided to wear yellow emergency vests and asked sympathizers to show their support to the movement by displaying these vests in their cars. The symbolism behind this vest is simple enough. The French driver’s manual mandates that every driver must keep an emergency vest inside their car in case of accident or other issues on the road. In view of their dependency on cars, fearing to see their living conditions worsen, protestors chose these emergency vests as a symbol of resistance against Macron’s decision. By extension, protestors and media came to call this movement the “yellow vests.”
A blockade near Nantes on November 17.
Thousands of actions took place during the weekend of November 17. Approximately 288,000 “yellow vest” protestors were present in the streets for the first day of national blockade. This was a success for the movement, especially considering that it did not receive any assistance from trade unions or other major organizations.
Unfortunately, things escalated when fights broke out between “yellow vests” and other individuals. One “yellow vest” protester, a woman in her sixties, was killed by a driver, a mother who was trying to take her sick child to the doctor and attempted to drive through a blockade when people in yellow vests started smacking her car. Altogether, more than 400 people were injured, one protestor was killed, and about 280 individuals were arrested that weekend.
The movement remained strong despite these incidents. The blockades continued over the following days, even if participation diminished. In order to maintain the pressure on the government, the “yellow vests” made another national call for the following Saturday, November 24. Once again, various “yellow vest” groups on Facebook planned actions and demonstrations everywhere in France and circulated a call to converge in Paris for a big demonstration.
Protesters facing a water cannon. The image looks heartening, but the far-right nationalist Action Française claims that the picture shows their militants “forming the front line against the forces of order.”
At first, this demonstration was planned for the Champs de Mars, near the Eiffel tower, where law enforcement would have surrounded and contained the protestors. However, this official decision did not satisfy some “yellow vesters,” and other calls circulated on social media. The November 17 demonstration in Paris had failed to reach its objective, the Presidential palace; consequently, the “yellow vesters” who were about to converge in Paris decided to repeat that effort on November 24. So it was that, rather than gathering at the base of the Eiffel tower, people converged and blocked the Champs Elysées, a target with powerful symbolic status. This luxurious avenue is the most visited in Paris; the Elysée palace where President Macron resides is located at the end of this avenue.
As they had the preceding week, demonstrators tried to get as close to the Presidential palace as possible. Barricading and confrontations took place all day along the most well-known Parisian avenue. It was reported that this second round of actions gathered about 106,000 participants throughout France, with about 8000 in Paris. These figures suggest that the movement is losing momentum. In the course of the demonstration in Paris, 24 people were injured in clashes and 103 people were arrested, of whom 101 were taken into custody. The first trials took place on Monday, November 26.
Bonfire on the Champs Elysées.
The “yellow vest” movement describes itself as spontaneous, horizontal, and without leaders. It is difficult to be certain of these statements. The movement started via social media groups that facilitated decentralized actions in which people decided locally what they wanted to do and how to do it. In this regard, there is clearly some kind of horizontal organizing going on.
Regarding whether the movement is truly leaderless, this is more complicated. From the beginning, “yellow vesters” insisted that their movement was “apolitical” and had no leader. Instead, it was supposed to be the organic effort of several groups of people working together on the basis of their shared anger.
Nevertheless, as in practically every group—anarchist projects included—there are power dynamics. As is often the case, some people manage to accumulate more leverage than others, due to their access to resources, their capacity to persuade, or simply their skills with new technologies. Scrutinizing some of the self-proclaimed spokespersons of the “yellow vest” movement, we can see who has been able to accumulate influence within the movement and consider what their agenda might be.
Christophe Chalençon is the spokesperson for the Vaucluse department. Presenting himself as “apolitical” and “not belonging to any trade union,” he nevertheless presented his candidacy for the 2017 legislative election as a member of the “diverse right.” When we dig deeper into his personal relations and Facebook profile, we can see that his discourse is clearly conservative, nationalist, and xenophobic.
In Limoges, the organizer of the November 17 action of the “yellow vests” in the region was Christophe Lechevallier. Once again, the profile of this “angry citizen” is quite interesting. The least we can say is that Christophe Lechevallier seems to be a turncoat. In 2012, he presented his candidacy for the legislative elections as a member of a centrist party (the MoDem). Then he joined the extreme-right Front National (now called the Rassemblement National) and invited in 2016 its leader Marine Le Pen to a meeting. In the meantime, he was also working with the French pro-GMO agricultural organization FNSEA (the National Federation of Agricultural Holders’ Unions), known for defending the use of chemicals, such as the Glyphosate, to intensify their productions.
In Toulouse, the “yellow vest” spokesperson is Benjamin Cauchy. This young executive has been interviewed several times on national and local media. Again, this spokesperson is hardly “apolitical” if we consider his past. Benjamin Cauchy speaks freely about his political experience as a member of the traditional neoliberal right (at that time, the UMP, now known as Les Républicains). However, during law school, Benjamin Cauchy was one of the leaders of the student union UNI—well-known for its connections with conservative right and far-right parties and groups. But even more interesting, Benjamin Cauchy has not publicly acknowledged that he is now a member of the nationalist party Debout La France, whose leader, Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, made an alliance with Marine Le Pen (of the Rassemblement National) during the second round of the last presidential election in hopes of defeating Macron.
There are frustrated consumers on both sides of the barricades.
So it is clear that conservative and far-right groups are hoping to impose their discourse, spread their ideas, and use this “apolitical movement of angry citizens” as a way to gain more power. This has not gone entirely unopposed. The yellow vesters of Toulouse decided to evict Benjamin Cauchy from their movement due to his political views. On November 26, while invited at a radio show, the latter said that as an answer to his eviction, he was creating a new national organization entitled “Les Citrons” (the Lemons) to continue his fight against tax rises and took the opportunity to denounce the “lack of democracy that exists within the ‘yellow vest’ movement.”
Finally, it seems that the so-called “leaderless movement” completely changed its strategy in the aftermath of the second Parisian demonstration. On Monday, November 26, a list of eight official spokespersons of the movement was presented to the press. Apparently, the preceding day, yellow vesters were asked to vote online to elect their new leading figures. These nominations and strategic decisions are already creating tension within the movement. Some yellow vesters are now criticizing the legitimacy of the election, raising questions about how these leaders got selected in the first place.
Meanwhile, some members of the movement have called for another day of action on Saturday, December 1. The demands are clear: 1.) More purchasing power; 2.) The cancellation of all taxes on gas. If these demands are not granted, demonstrators say that “they will march towards Macron’s resignation.” So far, 27,000 persons have announced that they will participate in this event. Once again, the unity that was the watchword several weeks ago seems to have evaporated, as several local organizers have dissociated themselves from the movement in opposition to the more confrontational path that the movement seems to be taking.
A blockade by night.
Rather than addressing the question of horizontality, corporate media outlets have been focusing on another question: is the protesters’ anger legitimate?
Many media outlets have suggested that this movement is mostly composed of undereducated low-income people who are against protecting the environment; they describe the demonstrations as violent in order to delegitimize the anger of the participants. Despite this, some media outlets have shifted their discourse over time, becoming somewhat less condescending and more willing to broadcast demonstrators’ concerns. For example, after the confrontations at the Champs Elysées last Saturday, Christophe Castaner, the new Minister of the Interior, said: “the amount of damages is poor, they are mostly material ones, that’s the most important thing.” Quite a surprising statement, considering how corporate media outlets and politicians have decried similar actions during the demonstrations on May Day and the protests against the Loi Travail.
From our perspective, there’s no doubt that their anger is legitimate. Most people who take part in this movement speak of the difficult living situations they have to deal with every day. It makes sense that they are saying that they have had enough; the gas issue is just the straw that broke the camel’s back. The lower-class population has to struggle harder and harder to survive while everyone else remains comfortable enough not to be affected by economic shifts and tax increases targeting consumers. For now, at least.
So anger—and direct action—are legitimate. The question is whether the political vision and values that are driving this movement can lead to anything good.
“Eh, let them eat biofuels - Brigitte Macron.”
Numerous racist, sexist, and homophobic acts have taken place during yellow vest actions. During the November 17 demonstration in Paris, several well known anti-Semites and nationalists were seen among the crowd of demonstrators. Members of far-right and nationalist groups participated in the demonstrations on November 24 in Paris, as well. Some comrades have reported that the presence of the far right in the Paris demonstration is “undeniable.” They describe seeing a group of monarchists with a flag; the crowd considered their presence “insignificant” compared to the water cannons that law enforcement used during the clashes.
The same report also mentions several elements that are difficult to interpret. For example, while the crowd in Paris chanted some classic slogans of May 1968 (“CRS SS”) and the Loi Travail demonstrations (“Paris debout, soulève toi!”), they also chanted the first verse of the Marseillaise, which is currently associated with traditional republican parties and the far right, not radicals. This chant could be understood as a reference to its origins in the French Revolution, but the song has been coopted by its role as the French national anthem, giving it a patriotic and nationalist tone.
Yellow bloc.
Another example: while marching down the Champs Elysées, the crowd chanted “We are at home.” For an English-speaking reader, this statement seems innocuous enough, an affirmation that the demonstrators had taken the streets, as the authors of the above report framed it. However, this chant echoes the one regularly used by National Front supporters during their meetings. Understood in that context, “we are at home” has a more sinister connotation. For nationalists, it means that France is and will always be a white, Christian, and nationalist country. Everyone who doesn’t fit their identity and political agenda is therefore considered a stranger or an intruder. In other words, this slogan creates a narrative about who belongs and who doesn’t. The use of these words during the yellow vest demonstrations is poorly chosen, if not ominous.
Paris is not the only place reactionary tendencies have emerged in the movement. Indeed, on November 17, in Cognac, yellow vest protestors assaulted a black woman who was driving a car. During the altercation, some protestors told her to “go back to [her] country.” The same day, at Bourg en Bresse, an elected representative and his partner were assaulted for being gay. In the Somme department, some yellow vesters called the immigration police when they realized that migrants were hiding inside a large truck stuck in traffic. The list goes on.
Finally, some participants in this “apolitical” movement have openly expressed contempt for social movements in general—including the movement for better education, the movement to defend hospitals and access to health care, and the movement of the railworkers. In effect, this movement that purports to dissociate itself from collective struggles so it can benefit “everyone” ends up promoting individualistic self-interest: the right of isolated consumers to keep using their cars however they want at a cheap price, without any real vision of social change.
Police block the freeway as yellow vesters make representations of themselves.
Among anarchists and leftists, we can identify two different schools of thought regarding how to engage with the “yellow vest” phenomenon: those who think that we should take part in it, and those who think that we should keep our distance.
The yellow vest movement claims to be “apolitical.” By and large, the participants describe themselves as disgruntled citizens who work hard but are always the first to suffer from taxes and government decisions. This discourse has a lot in common with the Poujadisme movement of the 1950s, a reactionary and populist movement named for deputy Pierre Poujade, or, more recently, with the “Bonnets rouges” movement (the “red beanies”).
The idea that the movement is “apolitical” is dangerous in that it offers a perfect opportunity for far-right organizers, populists, and fascists to insinuate themselves among protesters. In other words, this movement offers the far right a chance to restructure itself and regain power.
As soon as the movement gained widespread attention, extreme-right politician Marine Le Pen and other conservatives and populists expressed support for it. So much for the talk about being “apolitical”!
“The ultra-right will lose!”
This appears to be a genuinely spontaneous and decentralized movement involving low-income people. In theory, we should be organizing alongside them in order to fight capitalism and state oppression. Mind you, the concepts of class war and anti-capitalism are far from being accepted or promoted among the demonstrators.
Some argue that we should be participating in order to prevent fascists from coopting the movement and the anger it represents. Some radicals believe that we should take part in these actions as a way to make new connections with people and spread our ideas about capitalism and how to respond to the economic crisis.
For some radicals, being skeptical of the current movement and not wanting to take part in it can also indicate some sort of class contempt directed at the “apolitical” poor. Others argue that in every situation, we should always aim to be actors rather than spectators. Some even assert that if we are “true” revolutionaries, we should leap into the unknown and discover what is possible instead of passively criticizing from a distance.
All these arguments are valid, but if they lead to anarchists participating in a movement that offers fascists a recruiting platform—as some anarchists did in the Ukrainian revolution—that will be a disaster that opens the way for worse catastrophes to come.
“Down with the state, the police, and the fascists.”
The fundamental problem with the yellow vest movement is that it begins from the wrong premises, attempting to preserve conditions that we should all have been fighting to abolish in the first place. Rather than seeking to protect today’s alienated and miserable consumer way of life, which is itself the result of a century of defeats and betrayals in the labor movement, we should be asking why we are so dependent on cars and gasoline in the first place. If our ways of surviving and traveling had not been constructed in such an isolating, individualized way—if capitalists were not able to exploit us so ruthlessly—we would not have to choose between destroying the environment and giving up the last vestiges of financial stability.
We have to change our habits and give up our privileges in the course of fighting for another world (or another end of the world), but as always, governments and capitalists are forcing us to bear the brunt of the problems they caused. We must not permit them to frame the terms of the discussion.
“Overthrow Macron, disband the government, and abolish the system.”
Incidentally, the situation is quite different outside the French homeland. On the island of Reunion, since November 17, there has been a social upheaval in which all strategic sites have been blocked—the port, the airport, and the prefecture. Fearing that they might lose control of the situation and concerned about the impact on the economy, French authorities established a curfew on November 20 that lasted until November 25.
In Europe, as the yellow vest movement attempts to restructure itself after being weakened by leadership issues and conflicts over strategy, this might be an opportunity to create new bridges and make proposals about more systemic solutions to the problems that caused this movement.
Regarding ecology, we have to emphasize that the rich are the ones chiefly responsible for climate change, and that they will have to be the ones who pay to deal with it—if we are not able to dethrone them first. To some extent, this seems to be what the current blockading movement against capitalism and climate change, Extinction Rebellion, is trying to do in England. It is ironic that two different blockading movements about capitalism and ecology are taking place on either side of the English channel right now—one making ecological demands of the state, the other reacting to state environmental measures.
About nationalism, we must assert that it is no better to be exploited by citizens of our own race, gender, and religion than it is to be exploited by foreigners, and emphasize that we will only be able to stand up to those who oppress and exploit us if we establish solidarity across various lines of difference, including race, gender, religion, citizenship, and sexual preference. We are inspired by the yellow vest protesters in Montpellier who formed a guard of honor to welcome the feminist march on November 24.
Above all, we need an anti-capitalist, anti-fascist, anti-sexist, and ecological front within the space of social movements. The question is whether that should take place inside the “yellow vest” movement, or against it.
Chaos for Christmas.
There are so many dawns that have yet to break.


Published
2018-11-27


CrimethInc. ist eine Allianz von Rebell*innen - ein dezentrales Netzwerk, das sich zu anonymen kollektiven Aktionen verpflichtet hat - ein Ausbruch aus den Gefängnissen unserer Zeit. Wir streben danach, unser Leben und unsere Welt nach den Prinzipien der Selbstbestimmung und der gegenseitigen Hilfe neu zu erfinden.
Wir glauben, dass du alle Möglichkeiten haben solltest dein grenzenloses Potenzial nach deinen eigenen Vorstellungen nutzen zu können: dass keine Regierung, kein Markt und keine Ideologie in der Lage sein sollte, zu bestimmen, was euer Leben sein kann. Wenn du zustimmst, lass uns gemeinsam etwas dafür tun._
Hi everyone, I love you so much for caring enough to read this.
It has been a very busy week tons of questions.  But, ones that need to be asked.  First let me tell you I have never gotten into social media.  I didn’t understand it and didn’t care to take the time to learn.  But, now I am loving social media.  Crazy never thought I would say that.  But, it has helped so much.  I have actually gotten the attention of people that may be able to help me and those little children.  Which brings so much hope to me.  Without the communications we have through social media channels I could not and would not have ever met so many wonderful people in the state of Oklahoma!  The people in Oklahoma are so wonderful.  Yet, another thing I never thought I would say.  Growing up if you just said the word Oklahoma to me, so many bad memories would come flooding back I would just cringe and categories the entire state with just the horrid memories I had.  Now when you say Oklahoma to me, my shoulders square, I stand a little taller with more hope and a lot less overwhelmed from the weight of my past.  Because of the great people I have met.
One of the questioned asked was if I had a description of the children and where they were from.  These are the memories I have of them. 
John, my stepfather, had one of these hanging.
 
He had chicken wire up along the walls to hold back the dirt and hung up an image that looked like the above picture.  There were times I literally had nothing else to look at for days, so trust me when I say I have this image seared into my memory.  He also had a map of Oklahoma up next to it with the same kinds of marks along the roads and highways.  He would rock back and forth for hours and chant “7,7,7,7,7,…” When we were driving to get one of his victims he would rock while holding the steering wheel, pushing on the gas, and gazing, like in a trance, through the windshield, he would chant “7,7,7,7,7,7,…”  We were always traveling on a highway that was a hwy 7 or added up to a 7.  He believed that number to be some kind of sign talking to him.  Instigating his every move.  I believe his victims were children taken from these points shown in the bigger knots of the dream catcher he had hanging.  Which would tell us what part of Oklahoma the children were taken from.
Here is a description of the children the best that I remember them.
1.	The one that I know is still down in that crawl space:  He had short dark black hair. Dark brown eyes with gold flecks.  When he was taken he was chubby.  He was shorter than me.  I was 7 he had to have been close to that age.  He was bouncing a ball in the front yard.  The boy that was watching him was talking on the phone he spoke Spanish, and went inside.  We had been there for hours.  Our car was in the front of their house and John was ‘fixing’ the broken down car. I remember looking at the little boy thinking, it would be fun to play with him.  He was happy and had a lot of energy.   John called him by the name of Miguel.  I honestly don’t know if that was a made up name.
2.	The next girl I remember John called her by the name of Stacy.  She was taken at a small airport.  Her father and mother were drug addicts who had partied with my step-family and mother.  She had long kinda frizzy red hair.  Not bright red.  She had sad green eyes.  Taller than me.  And bigger built than the other kids I knew that were 7.
3.	Another girl that I remember her having a softball uniform on and a backpack with a bat coming out of it.  She had long sandy blonde hair more sandy than blonde.  Light brown eyes.  A lot bigger than I was and the other 7 year old kids I knew.
4.	There was an oriental girl that spoke very broken up English.  She was playing on the playground with me.  She had a pretty smile but we couldn’t really understand each other. She had black silky hair that was just above her shoulders.  And dark eyes.
5.	Another little girl that John called Dolly.  She had black skin.  Light green and brown eyes.  Really tight curly black hair that went just below her ears.  She was about my size.
6.	Another little boy that John called Linquest.  He was tall and skinny.  Light complicated. Light brown hair.  Sad light brown eyes.  He was playing in the corner of a yard by himself.
7.	The last one he took was my friend.  She went by the name of Candy.  She had long blonde hair with soft curls.  She had green blue eyes.  She was my size.  The nicest person I had ever known.  She came up to the car because she saw me and thought it was safe.  She was living in Edmond but her family was military I believe.  I remember her dad or someone that she really loved wearing a military uniform a lot.  
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:


			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Google account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			




			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			


Connecting to %s
 Notify me of new comments via email.
 




Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,307 other followers







 
		                Follow                    

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,307 other followers







 
		                Follow                    

The Jersey Fraud Prevention Forum will seek to develop a coordinated and strategic approach to the protection of the Island’s general public from investment frauds and scams between the agencies concerned.
The agencies that form the Jersey Fraud Prevention Forum are as follows:
For any press and media enquiries, please contact:
Abi Nance
Head of Communications
Jersey Financial Services Commission
T: +44 (0)1534 822008 | M: 07797 772580 | E: a.nance@jerseyfsc.org
If you think you have been targeted by a scam or fallen victim, please do not hesitate to contact the States of Jersey Police on 01534 612 612 or visit Police Headquarters in person, email the Fraud Prevention Forum's dedicated email address scams500@police.je, send any scam mail to PO Box 500, or speak to a friend or family member.
Remember that if you are a victim of scam, or an attempted scam, however minor, there may be hundreds or thousands of other people in a similar position. Your information may form part of one big jigsaw and may be vital to completing the picture.
new age yoga & meditation
Yoga. Crystals. Wellness.


			My name is Kristen Maldonado I am the owner of New Age Yoga and I can't wait to share how Yoga has changed my life! I'm a busy mom with a passion for books and nature. I graduated with B.A. in Literature and Psychology with extensive research in World Religions. My yoga journey began in 2012 after experiencing my very first Savasana. Then i was hooked!! I have a 200hr-RYT cert with Yoga Alliance. I had a 5 year background in POP Pilates but Yoga took my health regimen to the next level. Yoga has taught me to harness the energy of my breath and draw my conscious focus inward. Teaching has been a true blessing and i look forward to sharing what I love about this amazing practice! *Namaste*			
				View all posts by New Age Yoga & Meditation			

Register through our website for free2play online games, play & test them, write game reviews
We give you simple in-game quests - for completing each of 'em and writing game reviews you get our virtual currency - Bananas!
Exchange collected Bananas for real prizes: games and prepaids, CSGO skins, steam wallets, amazon, paysafecards and many more prizes to win
We already handed out rewards worth:
We have already invited 
Looking for a place to meet new friends with whom you can share your passion for online games?
The Internet offers many portals almost like ours: but "almost" makes a big difference! If you want to play, earn extra points, you will not find a better site.
For Bananas you will get valuable prizes... so play and win! 
Our portal has been designed to meet your needs: complete Quests and get free keys, prepaids, game currencies, hardware, CSGO Skins and much more. Follow us on Facebook and win prizes in special contests! Search no more - Bananatic is the best online game portal.
Finish quests and pick up prizes:

Game keys and Gift Cards

Game Hardware

CSGO Skins and more
Leaving? Please stay!
Get a Free Game! 
16°C

Montréal
Changer de ville

Soumettre
document.write(publicatioin_date("2009-04-29 12:20:12.000", "2009-04-30 06:27:00.000"));


Agrandir
L'ombudsman de la Ville de Montréal, Johanne Savard, a présenté son rapport annuel mercredi.
Photo: Martin Chamberland, La Presse


Ajouter

L'ombudsman de la Ville de Montréal, Johanne Savard, a «beaucoup de réserves» et se dit «énormément préoccupée» par la ligne antifraude annoncée il y a 10 jours par le maire Gérald Tremblay.
«Il faut faire très attention de ne pas faire la promotion d'une culture de suspicion et de délation : ça nuit beaucoup à la qualité du milieu du travail, a déclaré Mme Savard en conférence de presse à l'hôtel de ville, hier matin. Ce qui m'inquiète aussi avec des lignes de délation, c'est le risque de dénonciation malicieuse. Je serais très inquiète d'une ligne anonyme ou secrète.»  L'ombudsman, qui précise avoir une longue expérience des relations de travail avant son arrivée à la Ville, se dit également inquiète de la confidentialité des informations qui pourraient être obtenues grâce à cette ligne de dénonciation. Tant le dénonciateur que la personne accusée doivent être protégés, estime-t-elle. «Si on accuse quelqu'un et qu'en fin de compte, ce n'est pas fondé, il ne faut pas avoir détruit sa réputation en cours de route. Il y a beaucoup de questions et d'irritants dans un tel projet.»

Mme Savard croit que les récentes controverses qui ont éclaboussé l'hôtel de ville montrent que les mécanismes en place ont bien fonctionné. «Si on l'a trouvée, la fraude à l'informatique, si on lit tout ce qu'on lit dans les journaux, c'est qu'il y en a des systèmes actuellement qui fonctionnent. Peut-être qu'il faut seulement les resserrer, les rendre plus stricts, mieux encadrés. Mais est-ce qu'on doit avoir une ligne de délation? J'ai un petit peu de difficulté avec ça.»

Elle préconise une approche différente, en vertu de laquelle les employés et les élus se verraient rappeler les règles d'éthique auxquelles ils sont assujettis. «Il s'agit de reconfirmer les devoirs de loyauté, d'honnêteté et d'intégrité, les exigences, les attentes raisonnables de la Ville à cet égard, et de s'assurer qu'on intervient.»


L'ombudsman a fait cette sortie en marge de la présentation de son rapport annuel, le sixième depuis que la Ville a créé cette institution. On y constate une hausse de 33 % des plaintes en 2008 par rapport à l'année précédente, essentiellement à cause de la notoriété grandissante du bureau de l'ombudsman. Des 1753 plaintes de toutes sortes déposées par les Montréalais, l'écrasante majorité - 80 % - ne correspondaient pas au mandat de l'ombudsman et ont été refusées ou référées aux autorités municipales. Le bureau de l'ombudsman a finalement tenu 289 enquêtes approfondies, «qui se sont toutes réglées à notre satisfaction», note Mme Savard.

L'exemple le plus frappant concerne une lacune du Service des incendies de Montréal qui empêchait des centaines de citoyens victimes d'un incendie d'obtenir un remboursement de leurs assurances. «Pour toutes sortes de raisons liées aux relations de travail», a expliqué Mme Savard, les rapports d'événements n'étaient pas remis aux citoyens. Or, ceux-ci devaient obtenir ce document crucial pour le remettre à leurs assurances. Des centaines de victimes attendaient, sans pouvoir finaliser leur dossier d'assurances. L'intervention de l'ombudsman auprès de la direction des incendies a permis de régler l'imbroglio administratif.

«Un nouveau type d'attestation a été créé, explique Mme Savard. On dit toujours que nous, au bureau de l'ombudsman, on s'occupe des petits dossiers et que les grands dossiers vont au vérificateur général. Mais on a quand même parfois beaucoup d'impact sur le quotidien des gens.»

Le Plateau dénoncé

Globalement, Johanne Savard a tenu à féliciter l'administration de la Ville de Montréal et des arrondissements pour leur collaboration. À une seule exception près: le Plateau Mont-Royal. «Dans les faits, c'est difficile, c'est très difficile. Au Plateau, c'est comme arracher une dent à chaque information. Il faut même vérifier les informations qu'on nous donne, elles sont parfois non conformes à la réalité.»

Elle affirme que c'est la directrice de l'arrondissement, Johanne Falcon, qui est au coeur du problème. Des employés auraient reçu la consigne de ne pas transmettre d'informations à l'ombudsman, d'autres auraient été semoncés après l'avoir fait. «J'en ai parlé à la mairesse de l'arrondissement plusieurs fois, j'ai même sonné la cloche auprès du directeur général de la Ville, qu'on avait des grosses difficultés. On est obligé de passer par des élus pour régler des problèmes de gestion, ça n'a pas de bon sens.»
Draperies in Dows, IA
We bring you top quality drapery in Dows, IA at very affordable prices. Despite the fact that the quality of our drapers gives us every right to give them to you at premium rates, we prefer to offer relatively affordable rates to that a majority of customers can have a chance to have purchase them. Other than the affordable pricing, we also offer flexible modes and methods of making payments. To find out more about our prices and the various means of payment, kindly give us a call at 888-307-1690 and we will be glad to supply you with all the information you need.
At Drapery Team, we have wealth of experience in the drapery industry. We have witnessed various technological changes in the field and also adapted our products and services to suit the ever changing markets as well as the needs of our customers. We have seasoned designers whom have been with us for close to three decades and it is through their efforts and creatively that has contributed to us being one of the biggest stores dealing with Draperies in Dows, IA.
Due to the excellence that we have continuously ensured in the production of our fabric as well as the quality of our customer care executives, we have managed to receive a number of important recognition from most of the industry leaders as well as quality assurance organizations. These can only point out to the fact that we are indeed the best people to go to for all your Draperies in Dows, IA. We still have the urge and the desire to continue offering you with the best drapers that will ultimately meet your tailoring needs. Give us a call at 888-307-1690 for more information about our products and services.
Call us today at 888-307-1690 and enjoy our superior customer care services.
Mobile in-house drapery services
Are you in need of quality drapery but you do not want to our offices to make your selection and purchase? Well, our mobile in-house drapery services were specially designed for valued clients like you. With this service, our drapery consultants will come right to your home with several pairs of actual drapery, design inspirations as well as different kinds of fabrics that have been taken from our showroom. You will thus have the convenience of having a professional consultant help you make your choice from the comfort of your home. Call us today at 888-307-1690 for our mobile in-house drapery services in Dows, IA and we will be glad to serve you.
In-store drapery services
Other than availing to you home consultation services, we also have in-store consultation services for our drapery products and services in Dows, IA. When you visit our stores, you will have a chance to go through the different types of Draperies we have and you will also have a drapery consultant on standby to help you make your choice. You will have a chance to see, touch, feel and test the various products we have so that you purchase what you are absolutely comfortable and happy with. Visit us today and get the best Draperies in Dows. IA.


Drapery Team - Copyright © 2015


Jump to navigation

info@crimeandjustice.org.uk
020 7840 6110
Articles included in this issue:


Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, 2 Langley Lane, Vauxhall, London SW8 1GB
Tel: 020 7840 6110 Email: info@crimeandjustice.org.uk
Registered Charity No 251588. A Company Limited by Guarantee. Registered in England No 496821
 
« Utilisant la radiofréquence depuis quelques années, je me rends compte au quotidien de l’intérêt de cette technologie, mais je dois dire que depuis que j’utilise la técarthérapie Winback, mes séances ont radicalement évolué. Le confort ressenti par mes patients et moi-même me permet de mettre en place des traitements nouveaux et de m’engager dans des domaines de plus en plus variés. La facilité avec laquelle je peux cibler mes actions est bluffante. Pour résumer, je dirai que la técarthérapie Winback a donné un souffle nouveau à mes séances, qu’elles soient thérapeutiques ou esthétiques… » Frédéric Palmer, kinésithérapeute et ostéopathe au Centre Palmer d’Istres (13)
Étant un ancien kiné, j’ ai connu plusieurs périodes et techniques révolutionnaires. J’ai adhéré rapidement à la technique de Winback car en phase intellectuellement et manuellement. La TECAR grâce à Winback n’est pas un appareil de plus, mais une réelle technique manuelle qui vient en complément de notre pratique quotidienne. Il va sans dire que les patients ont bénéficié pleinement de cet apport thérapeutique. L’ approche a été excellente : “je sens que vous me faites du bien”, “ c’est agréable”, “je vais mieux” ont été les réponses spontanées des la première séance. Sur l’ ensemble de mes patients, je peux dire que j’ai 75% de bons retours. » Jean-Marc Lemarchand, kinésithérapeute à Mios (33)
«Première séance de técarthérapie avec Winback et déjà des résultats surprenants. Merci Winback !» Thibault Lecomte, kinésithérapeute à La Madeleine (59)
« Winback n’est pas un appareil de plus, mais une réelle technique manuelle mise en complément de notre pratique quotidienne. » Frédéric Delacour, kinésithérapeute et ostéopathe à Ormesson-sur-Marne (94)
« Le service médical de la Fédération Française de Cyclisme avec Samuel Rocès et le Dr. Jacky Maillot valident et confirment l’efficacité de Winback en técarthérapie. Dernier évènement en date, l’utilisation de Winback sur Joris Daudet en BMX, médaille d’or au championnat d’Europe à Baku, nouveau champion de France et dans le top 5 mondial… » Samuel Rocès, kinésithérapeute de la Fédération Française de Cyclisme
Retrouvez la technologie de tecarthérapie WINBACK sur Winback.com  Découvrez les centres équipés près de chez vous
Tento terapeut zatím nevyplnil osobní popis.
Please consider registeringguest
Login name
Password
Remember me

— Forum Scope —
— Match —
— Forum Options —
Minimum search word length is 3 characters - maximum search word length is 84 characters
deleted

yes meal it's all about Japan.

Most Users Ever Online: 288
Currently Online: 37 Guest(s)
Currently Browsing this Page: 1 Guest(s)
Top Posters: 
greeney2: 10273
bionic: 9870
Lashmar: 5289
tigger: 4576
rath: 4297
DIss0n80r: 4161
sandra: 3858
frrostedman: 3815
Wing-Zero: 3278
Tairaa: 2842
Member Stats: 
Guest Posters: 2
Members: 24595
Moderators: 0
Admins: 2
Forum Stats: 
Groups: 8
Forums: 31
Topics: 8921
Posts: 124023
Newest Members: 
Administrators: John Greenewald: 629, blackvault: 1776
Sign up for the FREE Black Vault newsletter, updating you on case files, declassified documents, and news.


#29 - Guest: Lt. Tim McMillan (04/18/19)
#28 - Guest: Janet Uhlar (04/03/19)
#27 - Where are we with AATIP? (03/22/19)
#26 - Guest: Gary Heseltine (03/01/19)
#25 - Guest: Dr. Irena Scott (02/19/19)
#24 - Guest: John Burroughs (02/12/19)
#23 - Guest: Nick Pope (02/08/19)
#22 - Guest: Alex Hollings (02/07/19)
#21 - Guest: David O'Leary (01/07/19)
#20 - Guest: Grant Cameron (12/28/18)
#19 - Guest: Annie Jacobsen (12/18/18)
#18 - Guest: Dr. Seth Shostak (12/13/18)
#17 - Guest: Jeremy Corbell (11/28/18)
#16 - From Project Sign to AATIP (11/23/18)
#15 - Guest: Marc D'Antonio (11/12/18)
#14 - Guest: David Paulides (10/12/18)
#13 - Guest: Chris Rutkowski (10/5/18)
#12 - Guest: Larry Hancock (9/26/18)
#11 - Guests: Jeremy Corbell & George Knapp (9/10/18)
#10 - Guest: Nate Jones (9/6/18)
#9 - Guest: Stephen Bassett (8/31/18)
#8 - Guest: Lee Speigel (8/25/18)
#7 - Guest: Chris O'Brien (8/10/18)
#6 - Guest: Dr. Aaron Judkins (8/1/18)
#5 - Guest: Jefferson Morley (7/25/18)
#4 - Guest: Dr. John B. Alexander (7/18/18)
#3 - Guest: Joshua P. Warren (7/12/18)
#2 - Guest: Frank Kimbler (7/6/18)
#1 - Guest: Stanton Friedman (7/3/18)




This site may contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available in an effort to advance understanding of environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and social justice issues, etc. we believe this constitutes a ‘fair use’ of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law.

If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond ‘fair use’, you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. 


PRIVACY POLICY



If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond ‘fair use’, you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. 


PRIVACY POLICY




PRIVACY POLICY


 No products
 Check out
Our Haunted Pirate Girl costume includes :
- dress - tricorn hat- fingerless gloves- footless tights

    
CHF  46.75



 
  -  + 
  Add 
 The minimum purchase order quantity for the product is 1
 Add to compare
   Tweet    Share    Google+    Pinterest 
 Write a review
Our Haunted Pirate Girl costume includes :
- dress - tricorn hat- fingerless gloves- footless tights

* Required fields
  Submit   or   Cancel 
  Be the first to write your review! 
Pirate Island Plates
Pumpkin Tote Bag
Frankenstein Tattoos
Witch & Cat Tattoos
Pirate Island Centerpiece
Power Rangers Dino Charge Deluxe Kids Costume
Pirate Island Cups
Mini Witch Party Hats
Pirates Hat
Halloween Cookie Cutters
Pirate Island Napkins
By credit card, PayPal or bank transfer
On orders over 75.- CHF
On orders placed by 11am
Satisfied or refunded
Simple, fast and free
Confetti Box was founded in 2009 out of a passion for parties. Our online boutique  is dedicated to the entertaining universe of parties and birthdays.
A one-stop shop that will help you find pleasure in organising birthdays and make party planning fun and simple while putting sparkles in the eyes of the little ones and big ones alike. At Confetti Box, we strive to provide you stylish decorations, the latest trendy partyware, and carefully curated products which will embellish your party and make it a memorable event!

 
Subscribe to our newsletter.

 No products
 Check out

Jump to navigation

info@crimeandjustice.org.uk
020 7840 6110
We invite communities and organisers to join an international gathering of people who are working to build a world without prisons.  Over four days we will come together to strategise and debate, exchange ideas and build stronger relationships in our shared struggles.
We welcome proposals for:


Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, 2 Langley Lane, Vauxhall, London SW8 1GB
Tel: 020 7840 6110 Email: info@crimeandjustice.org.uk
Registered Charity No 251588. A Company Limited by Guarantee. Registered in England No 496821
 

			Trending:		
Three people died in an apparent murder-suicide discovered on Hearst Willits Road Jan. 10.
According to the Mendocino County Sheriff’s Office, the victims have been identified as Krissy Lynn Orbon, 32; Damian Michael Wilkins, 8; and Michael David Wilkins, 49, all of Willits.
The MCSO stated that Orbon and Michael Wilkins were the parents of Damian Wilkins.
After responding to a 911 call Thursday afternoon, deputies found the three deceased in the home on the 5000 block of Hearst Willits Road amid a large amount of blood.
On Friday morning, the MCSO reported that detectives “were able to determine the incident was the result of a murder-suicide wherein a 49 year-old male killed a 32 year-old female and 8 year-old male before committing suicide.”
The release stated that the shootings were done with a firearm stolen from the home of a neighbor, who is also the person who called 911 after knocking on the door of the home and then seeing blood on the floor through a window.
The Orbon and Michael Wilkins, according to the MCSO, “were identified as having a romantic relationship to include being the biological parents of the male child.” It also stated that there had been no domestic violence calls in the past involving the people. Autopsies were scheduled for Jan. 15.
“Anyone who might have information that they think would be beneficial to Sheriff’s Detectives are urged to contact the Sheriff’s Office Tip-Line at 707-234-2100 or the WE-TIP anonymous crime reporting hotline at 800-732-7463,” the MCSO stated.
According to a Jan. 10 press release, the discovery began with a call from a “concerned person” around 2 p.m. Thursday who said they had gone to the house trying to find a person living there. When no one answered the door, the caller said, they looked through a window, saw a large amount of blood on the floor and called 911.
Responding deputies also got no answer at the door, saw the blood through the window and entered the house, where they found the three and evidence suggesting murder.
Sign up for email newsletters
Get the news
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
The following was received from the Silver City Police Department. According to police chief Ed Reynolds, the department responded to 50 calls for service over the weekend and had 301 self-initiated activity.
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs

                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        
Police lights by night(Photo: Alex_Schmidt, Getty Images/iStockphoto)
The following was received from the Silver City Police Department. According to police chief Ed Reynolds, the department responded to 50 calls for service over the weekend and had 301 self-initiated activity. They also made 20 arrests but none were for DWI.
Friday
Breaking and Entering:  Caller advised there was an incident in the 1700 block of East Highway 180.
Breaking and Entering:  Caller advised there was an incident in the 1600 block of Silver Heights Boulevard.
Disturbance: Caller advised a known juvenile is being detained after having an outburst in the 4000 block of South Highway 90.
Suicide Threat:  Caller advised there has been a suicide threat in the 800 block of South Robert Street.
Fraud/Embezzlement:  Caller advised customer tried to cash a false check in the 1600 block of North Swan Street.
Unwanted Subject:  Caller advised there are unwanted subjects on the property in the 1200 block of Pope Street.
Domestic Disturbance:  Caller advised there was an unknown individual screaming across the street in the 1600 block of Virginia Street.
Domestic Disturbance:  Caller advised she is having a disagreement with a named male who remains on the premises in the 1600 block of West Market Street.
Welfare Check:  Caller requested a welfare check in the 800 block of North Gold Street.
Noise Complaint:  Caller advised there was excessive noise in the 1000 block of West 7th Street.
Unwanted Subject:  Caller advised there is an unknown female on the premises who appears intoxicated and is arguing with staff in the 600 block of North Bullard Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 800 block of North Hudson Street.
Saturday
Suspicious Vehicles:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 1600 block of Little Walnut Road.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 200 block of West Highway 180.
Intoxicated Persons:  Caller advised there was an unknown intoxicated male in the 600 block of Spring Street.
Larceny:  Caller advised there are valuables missing in the 100 block of West Broadway Street.
Unwanted Subject:  Caller advised there was a named individual on the premises against their wishes in the 200 block of San Vicente Street.
Shoplifting:  Caller advised an unknown individual was seen taking items in the 2500 block of East Highway 180.
Intoxicated Persons:  Caller advised there was an unknown male intoxicated on the premises in the 1300 block of East 32nd Street.
Weapons Fired:  Caller advised they heard gunshots in the 700 block of East 12th Street.
Welfare Check:  Caller requested a welfare check for an unknown individual who appeared intoxicated in the 2500 block of North Silver Street.
Welfare Check:  Caller requested a welfare check in the 600 block of East Spring Street.
Domestic Disturbance:  Caller advised there was an argument in the 700 block of East 14th Street between her son and a known female.
Disturbance:  Caller advised the crowds were getting out of control in the 3200 block of North Silver Street.
Shoplifting:  Caller advised an unknown individual was seen taking items in the 2500 block of East Highway 180.
Fight:  Caller advised there was a fight with at least two people who had sticks or bats in the 1400 block of North Gold Street.
Sunday
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 1200 block of North Main Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 200 block of West Highway 180.
Noise Complaint:  Caller advised there was excessive noise in the 2000 block of Memory Lane.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 2500 block of East Highway 180.
Loud Music:  Caller advised there was loud music coming from the area in the 1600 block of West Market Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 1200 block of North Hudson Street.
Loud Party:  Caller advised there was a loud party in the 800 block of B Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 2600 block of North Swan Street.
Shoplifting:  Caller advised there was an unknown individual stealing items in the 600 block of Silver Heights Boulevard.
Reckless Driver:  Caller advised there is a vehicle driving recklessly in the 900 block of Pope Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 200 block of West Highway 180.
Domestic Disturbance:  Caller advised there is a loud disturbance next door in the 2400 block of Cactus Street.
Shoplifting:  Caller advised an unknown individual was taking items in the 600 block of Silver Heights Boulevard.
Disturbance:  Caller advised a named individual is throwing things at him in the 2200 block of Bosworth Drive.
Welfare Check:  Caller requested a welfare check in the 100 block of South Texas Street.
Welfare Check:  Caller requested a welfare check on a disoriented individual at the corner of Arizona and Broadway Streets.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 1200 block of North Main Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 2300 block of Sheriff’s Posse Road.
Intoxicated Person:  Caller advised there was an intoxicated male yelling on the corner near the 400 block of North Bullard Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle in the 3000 block of East Highway 180.
Suspicious Vehicles:  Caller advised there were two suspicious vehicles in the 2500 block of East Highway 180.
Harassment:  Caller advised a known individual was being violent in the 1400 block of East Pine Street.
Disturbance:  Caller advised there was a disturbance with a lot of yelling in the 800 block of East Lisa Place.
Disturbance:  Caller advised a named individual is causing problems on the premises in the 1400 block of East Pine Street.
Vehicle Accident, No Injuries:  Caller advised there was an accident in the 1800 block of Alabama Street.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised a car with out-of-state plates running multiple stop signs in the area of Cactus and Yucca Streets.
Suspicious Vehicle:  Caller advised there was a suspicious vehicle at the corner of Huff and Gold Streets.
Your Thrilling Celebrity News Base
    Post your comment
    Read other Punjab News stories
    Visit Home Page for latest updates
© 2001-2019 newkerala.com
Menu
Editora Perspectiva
Av. Brigadeiro Luís Antônio, 3025
Jardim Paulista, São Paulo - SP
01401-000
(11) 3885 8388
Comunicação

Contato
Preencha com o seu nome e e-mail e receba informações sobre a Editora Perspectiva.
Redes Sociais

Copyright 2018, Editora Perspectiva

Ideograma CG

A Northumbria police chief says that crime is down in parts of Northumberland thanks to the impact of CCTV cameras.
A Northumbria police chief says that crime is down in parts of Northumberland thanks to the impact of CCTV cameras.
Assistant Chief Constable David Warcup said: "The use of closed circuit TV systems has more than proved its effectiveness in deterring certain types of criminals and identifying certain types of offenders whose actions are caught on video.
"It provides indisputable evidence when placed before the courts.
"In areas which benefit from full coverage, people&apos;s homes, businesses and vehicles are safer and there are less frequent incidents of public disorder.
"Even where the coverage is not so comprehensive, it&apos;s obvious that CCTV systems are helping to reduce crime and disorder and make people feel safer in their communities."
He added that the cameras freed up police time allowing them to make more use of patrols to target specific areas.
Coun George Gill, chairman of the Northumbria Police Authority, said: "The police authority has put a lot of work into bidding for money to pay for CCTV cameras with great success - and we are delighted to see that this is paying off."
Police reported that a "significant impact" was being made on Ashington and Morpeth town centres with burglaries in Ashing-ton down by 19 per cent.
 por Administrador | 25/05/2016

Tu dirección de correo electrónico no será publicada. Los campos obligatorios están marcados con *
Comentario 
Nombre * 
Correo electrónico * 
Web 
 Recibir un email con cada nueva entrada.
 




Introduce tu correo electrónico para suscribirte a este blog y recibir notificaciones de nuevas entradas.


							Dirección de correo electrónico						









Diseñado por Elegant Themes | Desarrollado por WordPress
Este sitio web utiliza cookies para que usted tenga la mejor experiencia de usuario. Si continúa navegando está dando su consentimiento para la aceptación de las mencionadas cookies y la aceptación de nuestra política de cookies, pinche el enlace para mayor información.plugin cookies
 

// <![CDATA[
google_ad_client = "pub-1576036175413313";
/* 120x600, creado 8/07/08 */
google_ad_slot = "0773049740";
google_ad_width = 120;
google_ad_height = 600;
// ]]>



 
Zur Durchführung dieser Einzelintervention eignen sich insbesondere Pflegende, aber auch andere Berufsgruppen mit entsprechender Expertise in Gesprächsführung und medizinischem Fachwissen, welche Interesse haben, im Rahmen einer fünftägigen Schulung die Einzelbausteine der Adherence Therapie zu erlernen.
Bei weiteren Fragen zum Dachverband und der Adherence Intervention lesen Sie bitte in den FAQs nach ob Ihre Frage schon beantwortet wurde oder wenden Sie sich bitte direkt an uns über das Kontaktformular.
Zurück
Copyright Dachverband Adherence e.V. 2011
 Kontakt: Dachverband Adherence e. V. 
Franz-Hegemann-Straße 23
59581 Warstein
Internet: http://www.dv-adherence.de | E-Mail: kontakt@dv-adherence.de
Telefon: +49 521 772 78 022 | Telefax: +49 521 772 78 511
Human trafficking offenses in the U.S. increased slightly in 2017, according to the FBI’s annual “Crime in the U.S.” report released on Sept. 24.
There were 1,220 trafficking offenses reported by U.S. law enforcement in 2017, up from 1,196 in 2016.
(Pixabay)The majority (994) involved commercial sex acts, with the other 225 offenses being cases of involuntary servitude. Puerto Rico reported one trafficking offense in 2017 that was uncategorized.
The national Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) human trafficking data collection is the basis for these statistics compiled in the report.
Law enforcement officials submit data into the UCR in order to create a database reflecting crime rates and types nationwide.
Just under half (545) of the total offenses reported were cleared.
“An offense is cleared by arrest, or solved for crime reporting purposes, when at least one person is (1) arrested, (2) charged with the commission of the offense and (3) turned over to the court for prosecution,” the report said.
An offense is also marked as cleared if the offender dies, is prosecuted by a state or local authority, extradition is denied or prosecution is denied.
Texas had the highest number of trafficking offenses (312) in 2017, up from 257 in 2016, which was the highest number of any state that year.
At 173, Minnesota had the second-most offenses again in 2017, down from 253 in 2016.
The other states with 50 trafficking offenses or more reported in 2017 were Arizona (99), Florida (89), Tennessee (79), Wisconsin (65), Louisiana (61) and Colorado (56).
There were 289 trafficking offenses reported collectively by the other states and U.S. territories included in the report.
Data was not provided from several states, which is the result either of a state not including instances of trafficking in its data collection or using collection methodologies out of compliance with national UCR guidelines.
“It is important to note that these data represent only one view of a complex issue – the law enforcement perspective,” the report noted. “However, due to the nature of human trafficking, many of these crimes are never reported to the local, state, tribal and federal LEAs [law enforcement authorities] that investigate them.”
The full report is available here. The human trafficking data is available here.
This article originally appeared on EthicsDaily.com.
 
    Bob Terry, former Word&Way Editor & longtime Baptist journalist, talks with Word&Way Editor & President Brian Kaylor during a meeting of the Baptist World Alliance. He reflects on his time at Word&Way and what he learned over 50 years as a Baptist journalist. He also talks about what he thinks should unite Baptists. (This episode is sponsored in…
 https://traffic.libsyn.com/secure/adjective/64._Bob_Terry.mp3
    Rachel Conway-Doel, facilitator of the Baptist Forum for Aid and Development, talks with Word&Way Editor & President Brian Kaylor during a meeting of the Baptist World Alliance. She discusses how global Baptists are working together in the aftermath of natural disasters. She also explains the different phases of aid and development work. You can support the Baptist efforts…
https://traffic.libsyn.com/secure/adjective/63._Rachel_Conway-Doel.mp3
    Jules Casseus, former president of North Haiti Christian University, talks with Word&Way Editor & President Brian Kaylor during a meeting of the Baptist World Alliance. He discusses life in Haiti and the work of NHCU. He also talks about the importance of a holistic gospel and social Christian ethics.  (This episode is sponsored in part by  Churchnet and the…
https://traffic.libsyn.com/secure/adjective/62._Jules_Casseus.mp3
    Pam Durso, executive director of Baptist Women in Ministry, talks with Word&Way Editor & President Brian Kaylor. She discusses the work of BWIM and her background as a historian. She also talks about BWIM's resources on sexual abuse in churches and why churches need to address the topic.  (This episode is sponsored in part by the Cooperative Baptist…
https://traffic.libsyn.com/secure/adjective/61._Pam_Durso.mp3
The initial connection between Cloudflare's network and the origin web server timed out. As a result, the web page can not be displayed.
Please try again in a few minutes.
Contact your hosting provider letting them know your web server is not completing requests. An Error 522 means that the request was able to connect to your web server, but that the request didn't finish. The most likely cause is that something on your server is hogging resources. Additional troubleshooting information here.

Cloudflare Ray ID: 4cb28618d94371b5
•
Your IP: 2604:6000:1314:42ee:f568:9ea:bda9:195b
•
Performance & security by Cloudflare

Site de l'activité parapente de la fédération Française de Vol Libre – agrément ministériel du 4 décembre 1974 N° 75S131 1 place du Général Goiran 06100 NICE – connexion - contact - plan du site - mentions légales

JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
                    You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.                
This website requires cookies to provide all of its features. For more information on what data is contained in the cookies, please see our Cookie Policy. To accept cookies from this site, please click the Allow button below.

                            Items 1 to 10 of 17 total                    

View as:
List 
                                                                Grid 
                                                
Bonnie Thomas, illustrated by Rosy Salaman
Dr. Karen Treisman
Jennifer Guest
Dr Fiona Zandt and Dr Suzanne Barrett. Foreword by Associate Professor Lesley Bretherton
Jennifer Guest
Dawn D'Amico, LCSW, PhD
Deborah M. Plummer
Bonnie Thomas
Lindsey Joiner
Jennifer Guest

                            Items 1 to 10 of 17 total                    

View as:
List 
                                                                Grid 
                                                
Shopping Options
You have no items in your shopping cart.
 
Jessica Kingsley Publishers Ltd.
400 Market Street
Suite 400
Philadelphia
PA 19106
USA
215 922 1161
hello.usa@jkp.com
+44 (0) 203 967 3480(ebook downloads)
downloads@jkp.com(ebooks downloads)
Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive. Let's work together to keep the conversation civil.

Familie Peer Sabine & Lorenz
		Schaller 5
		A - 6167 Neustift
Tel.: +43 - (0)5226 / 2646
		Fax: +43 - (0)5226 / 2646
peersabine@aon.at
NINFA PERDIDA EN LAS PALMAS
Cras sit amet nibh libero, in gravida nulla. Nulla vel ...
loros grise africanos  o yacos  adorables con microchip
Cras sit amet nibh libero, in gravida nulla. Nulla vel ...
tarotista
Cras sit amet nibh libero, in gravida nulla. Nulla vel ...
You're looking for something that does not, has not, will not, might not or must not exist ...
... but you're always welcome to search for it.

About | Proxy List |
			Blog


Usage policy |
			TOR |
			Doodles |
			Forum


Refer a friend, get $10 off for them and $10 for you. Use your offer on our newly discounted tees.
Art Prints designed by independent artists from all over the world.
Break out your top hats and monocles; it’s about to classy in here. Printed on 100% cotton watercolour textured paper, Art Prints would be at home in any gallery. But your walls are better.
 Create!
Therapeutic massage is part of existence from people giving themselves one, giving someone to others, or receiving expertise and almost everybody enjoys them. The treatment promises respite from discomfort, headaches, along with other ailments, but exactly how? Questions that can help individuals comprehend the field are, what’s therapeutic massage, do you know the benefits, and just how do you use it.
Therapeutic massage is understood to be the manipulation of muscles and ligament to enhance relaxation and performance from the body. Essentially this is the way the treatment works. Supplying or giving a massage helps relax your body by relieving stress from muscles and improving mobility in a number of ways. Therapists usually employ one primary approach to the treatment, they also mix techniques. The mixture method helps relieve more signs and symptoms and ailments from patients because each method has another overall goal in assisting a person.
There are many forms that concentrate on a variety of parts of the body for that mental and physical health of the individual. Therapeutic massage has been shown through studies to profit patients in a number of ways. It promotes health by:
growing circulation
healing injuries
improving joint versatility
enhancing the defense mechanisms protect against disease
The general goal would be to relieve stress and doing this is when the treatment works. Experts within the healthcare industry attribute 80 to 90 % of disease to worry. Therapists practice and discover new techniques regularly in order to help their sufferers more.
Many colleges offer an array of certificates and levels that prepare students to explore the short growing healthcare industry. Through this healing training, individuals can operate in a variety of jobs and careers. Therapists can be employed in physical rehabilitation offices, sports training, and an array of leisure activities. Numerous avenues could be taken and a few include sports, Russian, Swedish massage, and shiatsu training.
Students will become familiar with they and much more which will ready them to assist patients obtain good all around health. Let us consider the above options at length. The most popular sports massage can be used to supply respite from severe tension in muscles and ligament. This functions by reaching your muscle mass beneath the top layer of muscles. This kind of treatments are utilized on people who have consistent discomfort and it is connected with individuals who perform a large amount of activity like athletes or those who have endured injuries.
A Russian massage relies on a three-phase process. The very first phase is slow and mild, adopted with a hard, deep, and fast phase, and ends slower similar to the first phase. The most popular Japanese therapy of shiatsu, involves pressure with thumbs, fingers, palms, and often stretching. Swedish massage is among the earliest techniques and incorporates five stroking styles. These strokes include sliding, kneading, rhythmic tapping, friction, and vibration. This type helps patients by relieving discomfort, loosening joints, and provides better mobility in patients with osteo arthritis.
DC Grapevine
DC Grapevine, District of Columbia, Local News, events, Movie, and Book Reviews.  Business, Sports, with Outdoor and Travel Features.
  Why Buying a House Now Might Make Sense By Burt Carey Housing booms and busts are a way of life in the United States. Oftentimes, home sales figures can be indicators of an economy’s strength or a foreteller of future economic times. More than just a few key factors must be at work for […]
 


Yamaha’s Helm Master 
Takes Guesswork, Stress Out of Docking
Visit Yamaha Outboards.com to Learn More about Helm Master

Can You Trust Your Fish Finder? 
Visit Lowrance and Find Out Today!

STEREOACTIVE YOUNG ADVENTURERS
Waterproof, rugged and fully portable – StereoActive is where it’s at!“
The outdoor enthusiast finally has a rugged, waterproof option when it comes to high-quality stereo sound. With built-in Bluetooth audio streaming, AM/FM radio and USB audio playback, STEREOACTIVE is packed with features. Engineered in New Zealand, the new compact system is designed for the challenges of life on the water or exposure to the elements and tuned to deliver crystal clear audio that enhances any activity. Featuring the unique Puck mount system, users can easily and securely attach the stereo to any surface, such as an RV exterior, cooler, outdoor cooking space, paddleboard, kayak, canoe, boat or even hot tub. To keep valuables safe from the elements, FUSION has also offered the ACTIVESAFE which, when combined with STEREOACTIVE, will securely house any smartphone, vehicle keys, bank cards, or loose change.
Visit Fusion Entertainment.com today!


Dialing in Docks to Up Your Bass Game
Virtually every angler on the water these days is well aware that boat docks hold bass throughout the year.  However, not all anglers approach dock fishing with the correct tackle and strategy to make the most of their time on the water.  Fine-tuning your approach by reaching all fish-holding zones and identifying patterns can definitely lead to higher catch rates and bigger fish. Read More…
Learn More at Z Man Fishing

Coastal Chaos After the Strike
After the Strike World record-holders will quickly agree there is much more to skilled angling than simply finding and hooking a fish. The battle, especially with large, powerful game fish, Read More…
Visit Yamaha Outboards.com

Take the Trip of a Life Time
Take a short drive south of New Orleans, and you come to the southernmost point in Louisiana. It’s Venice and being at the end of the road is just the beginning of your trip for world-class yellowfin tuna fishing
Visit Home Run Charters 

F25 Yamaha Outboard
Today’s hot angling trend toward fishing skinny inshore backwaters with lightweight tackle just got a lift from Yamaha. Meet the all-new F25. This updated 25 horsepower outboard is the ticket to accessing remote fishing spots like never before.
Learn More Visit Yamaha Outboards

Covering the Column
Live bait rigged to stay on or near the surface is enticing as well. Predators push bait to the top during an attack, so a nervous morsel suspended under a kite, balloon or cork is always easy pickings. Baits hooked through the nose, or dorsal fin will stay near the surface whereas those hooked in the stomach or lower tail tend to swim downward. Trolled baits and lures serve the same purpose. The combination of splashing and bubbles, often in conjunction with teasers, help draw the game fish into the surface strike zone Read More… 
Visit Yamaha Outboards Today!
 

Return to top of page
 © Copyright 2009 - 2018 BeFirstMedia · All Rights Reserved · 
© Copyright 2009 - 2018 BeFirstMedia · All Rights Reserved · 
Om een sporter goed te kunnen begeleiden is kennis van “de sport” erg belangrijk. Iedere sport kent zijn eigen bewegingen, schoeisel, atributen, ondergrond en regels. Zo kan eenzelfde blessure, bv. overbelasting van de achillespees, voorkomen bij een tennisser, turner of wielrenner. De begeleiding is echter bij alle drie verschillend. Dit is ook niet zo vreemd als men het gebruikte sportschoeisel bekijkt, dit varieert van een harde carbonschoen tot een soepel turnschoentje. Een “one-size-fit-all” behandeling bestaat dan ook niet. Een sportpodotherapeut kent “de sport” en stemt de begeleiding af op uw situatie.
Nee, ook voor klachten aan de benen, knieen, heup en (lage) rug kunt u bij de sportpodotherapeut terecht. Een voet beweegt nooit alleen maar maakt altijd onderdeel uit van een zogenaamde beweegketen. Een blokkade en/of storing in deze beweegketen kan elders problemen geven. Een “overpronerende” voet tijdens het hardlopen kan de oorzaak zijn van een lopersknie of liesproblemen. Uw sportpodotherapeut bekijkt de gehele beweegketen en kijkt naar de oorzaak van uw klacht zodat deze behandeld kan worden.
Vaak kwamen mensen pas bij de sportpodotherapeut terecht als er klachten waren. Gelukkig weten ook steeds meer sporters de sportpodotherapeut te vinden om hun blessures voor te blijven of hun prestatie te verbeteren. Dit wordt bereikt door het verbeteren van de voetstand/beweegpatronen.
Het aanmeten van sportinlays, het analyseren van uw (hard)looppatroon en het geven van blessurepreventie-adviezen zijn enkele voorbeelden hiervanDe sportpodotherapeut zal zich steeds richten op de bewegingen die voor uw sport belangrijk zijn, het schoeisel en de “kaders” van de sport. De behandeling of adviezen worden hierop afgestemd.
Inlays worden al zo’n 150 jaar voorgeschreven voor het behandelen van verschillende klachten van de voet, benen en onderrug. Bij het behandelen van overbelastingsklachten bij sporters worden sportinlays steeds vaker toegepast met goed succes.
Ja, deze zijn anders. Bekijk maar eens de grote verschillen tussen wandelen, hardlopen, wielrennen, turnen, golfen en schaatsen. Verschillende sporten met alle hun eigen bewegingen, (loop)snelheden en schoenen. Waar een sportinlay de sporter tijdens het wielrennen goed corrigeert kan deze inlay zelfs een averechts effect hebben bij gebruik in een hardloopschoen.
Er zijn veel verschillende soorten inlays op de markt, maar wat is nu de juiste sportinlay? Het antwoord op deze vraag lijkt voor de hand te liggen: hij moet doen waar hij voor gemaakt is. Bij een sporter kan dit inhouden dat u van uw blessure herstelt of, bij preventief gebruik, voorkomt dat er (overbelasting)blessures ontstaan. Zoals ieder persoon anders is, iedere sport zijn eigen sportspecifieke bewegingen en schoeisel kent, zo is ook de sportinlays niet “standaard”. De sportinlay dient afgestemd te worden op uw persoon, sportbeoefening en sportschoeisel.
